Studies have suggested that an entirely normal outcome is likely when the nuchal translucency (NT) measurement is very large and the karyotype, morphology and echocardiography scans are normal. Recently this has been questioned as it is based on very small numbers.
Serum pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) is part of first trimester Down syndrome screening. Low levels have been associated with adverse outcome as well as chromosomal abnormality.
Antenatal education on the physiology of second stage of labour and effective pushing has not been studied in the literature. Anecdotal observation seems to indicate that some nulliparous women are (at least initially) unable to push effectively. A large proportion seem to reflexly contract the levator ani muscle when asked to push which may have the effect of slowing the progress of labour.
Twenty-eight per cent of stillbirths in Australia remain unexplained. A clinical practice guideline (CPG) produced by the Perinatal Society of Australia and New Zealand (PSANZ) Perinatal Mortality Special Interest Group is in use to assist clinicians in the investigation and audit of perinatal deaths.
Around 2% of women who give birth in Australia each year give birth in a birth centre. There is currently no standard definition of a birth centre in Australia.
Emergency contraception (EC) has been available in Australia without prescription since 2003. However, there has been little research into the extent of knowledge of the actions, effectiveness and availability of EC among the general population.
The levonorgestrel intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) provides effective contraception and treatment for menorrhagia and is used to prevent endometrial hyperplasia (EH) in women taking unopposed oestrogens.
Very frequently the same biological system is described by several, sometimes competing mathematical models. This usually creates confusion around their validity, ie, which one is correct. However, this is unnecessary since validity of a model cannot be established; model validation is actually a misnomer. In principle the only statement that one can make about a system model is that it is incorrect, ie, invalid, a fact which can be established given appropriate experimental data. Nonlinear models of high dimension and with many parameters are impossible to invalidate through simulation and as such the invalidation process is often overlooked or ignored.
The Enteropathogen Resource Integration Center (ERIC; http://www.ericbrc.org) has a goal of providing bioinformatics support for the scientific community researching enteropathogenic bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella spp. Rapid and accurate identification of experimental conclusions from the scientific literature is critical to support research in this field. Natural Language Processing (NLP), and in particular Information Extraction (IE) technology, can be a significant aid to this process.
The structural analysis of protein ligand binding sites can provide information relevant for assigning functions to unknown proteins, to guide the drug discovery process and to infer relations among distant protein folds. Previous approaches to the comparative analysis of binding pockets have usually been focused either on the ligand or the protein component. Even though several useful observations have been made with these approaches they both have limitations. In the former case the analysis is restricted to binding pockets interacting with similar ligands, while in the latter it is difficult to systematically check whether the observed structural similarities have a functional significance.
The chemokine and bone marrow-homing receptor CXCR4 is implicated in metastases of various cancers. This study was conducted to analyze the association of CXCR4 expression with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) bone metastasis and patient survival.
The Screening Inventory of Psychosocial Problems (SIPP) is a short, validated self-reported questionnaire to identify psychosocial problems in Dutch cancer patients. The one-page 24-item questionnaire assesses physical complaints, psychological complaints and social and sexual problems. Very little is known about the effects of using the SIPP in consultation settings. Our study aims are to test the hypotheses that using the SIPP (a) may contribute to adequate referral to relevant psychosocial caregivers, (b) should facilitate communication between radiotherapists and cancer patients about psychosocial distress and (c) may prevent underdiagnosis of early symptoms reflecting psychosocial problems. This paper presents the design of a cluster randomised controlled trial (CRCT) evaluating the effectiveness of using the SIPP in cancer patients treated with radiotherapy.
NCT00859768.
Persistent high risk HPV infection can lead to cervical cancer, the second most common malignant tumor in women worldwide. NK cells play a crucial role against tumors and virus-infected cells through a fine balance between activating and inhibitory receptors. Expression of triggering receptors NKp30, NKp44, NKp46 and NKG2D on NK cells correlates with cytolytic activity against tumor cells, but these receptors have not been studied in cervical cancer and precursor lesions. The aim of the present work was to study NKp30, NKp46, NKG2D, NKp80 and 2B4 expression in NK cells from patients with cervical cancer and precursor lesions, in the context of HPV infection.
The progression from Barrett's metaplasia to adenocarcinoma is associated with the acquirement of an apoptosis-resistant phenotype. The bile acid deoxycholate (DCA) has been proposed to play an important role in the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma, but the precise molecular mechanisms remain undefined. The aim of this study was to investigate DCA-stimulated COX-2 signaling pathways and their possible contribution to deregulated cell survival and apoptosis in esophageal adenocarcinoma cells.
Patients with acute chest pain are often referred to the emergency ward and extensively investigated. Investigations are costly and could induce unnecessary complications, especially with invasive diagnostics. Nevertheless, chest pain patients have high mortalities. Fast identification of high-risk patients is crucial. Therefore several strategies have been developed including specific symptoms, signs, laboratory measurements, and imaging.
P53 is a key tumor suppressor protein. In response to DNA damage, p53 accumulates to high levels in differentiated cells and activates target genes that initiate cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Since stem cells provide the proliferative cell pool within organisms, an efficient DNA damage response is crucial.
Conflicts of interest between the sexes are increasingly recognized as an engine driving the (co-)evolution of reproductive traits. The reproductive behaviour of Drosophila montana suggests the occurrence of sexual conflict over the duration of copulation. During the last stages of copulation, females vigorously attempt to dislodge the mounting male, while males struggle to maintain genital contact and often successfully extend copulations far beyond the females' preferred duration.
The growing prevalence of diabetes and heightened awareness of the benefits of early and intensive disease management have increased service demands and expectations not only of primary care physicians but also of diabetes specialists. While research has addressed issues related to referral into specialist care, much less has been published about the transition from diabetes specialists back to primary care. Understanding the concerns of family physicians related to discharge of diabetes care from specialist centers can support the development of strategies that facilitate this transition and result in broader access to limited specialist services. This study was undertaken to explore primary care physician (PCP) perspectives and concerns related to reassuming responsibility for diabetes care after referral to a specialized diabetes center.
There has been intense effort over the past couple of decades to identify loci underlying quantitative traits as a key step in the process of elucidating the etiology of complex diseases. Recently there has been some effort to coalesce non-biased high-throughput data, e.g. high density genotyping and genome wide RNA expression, to drive understanding of the molecular basis of disease. However, a stumbling block has been the difficult question of how to leverage this information to identify molecular mechanisms that explain quantitative trait loci (QTL). We have developed a formal statistical hypothesis test, resulting in a p-value, to quantify uncertainty in a causal inference pertaining to a measured factor, e.g. a molecular species, which potentially mediates a known causal association between a locus and a quantitative trait.
Metagenomic sequence data are proving to be a vast resource for the discovery of biological components. Yet analysis of this data to identify functional RNAs lags behind efforts to characterize protein diversity. The genome of 'Candidatus Pelagibacter ubique' HTCC 1062 is the closest match for approximately 20% of marine metagenomic sequence reads. It is also small, contains little non-coding DNA, and has strikingly low GC content.
The increasing prevalence of chronic disease represents a significant burden on most health systems. This paper explores the market failures and policy failures that exist in the management of chronic diseases.
Radiation-induced chromosome aberrations lead to a plethora of detrimental effects at cellular level. Chromosome aberrations provide broad spectrum of information ranging from probability of malignant transformation to assessment of absorbed dose. Studies mapping differences in radiation sensitivities between human chromosomes are seldom undertaken. Consequently, health risk assessment based on radio-sensitivities of individual chromosomes may be erroneous. Our efforts in this article, attempt to demonstrate differences in radio-sensitivities of human chromosome-1 and/or -2, both in interphase and metaphase spreads.
Alpha-isopropylmalate synthase (alpha-IPMS) is the key enzyme that catalyzes the first committed step in the leucine biosynthetic pathway. The gene encoding alpha-IPMS in Mycobacterium tuberculosis, leuA, is polymorphic due to the insertion of 57-bp repeat units referred to as Variable Number of Tandem Repeats (VNTR). The role of the VNTR found within the M. tuberculosis genome is unclear. To investigate the role of the VNTR in leuA, we compared two alpha-IPMS proteins with different numbers of amino acid repeats, one with two copies and the other with 14 copies. We have cloned leuA with 14 copies of the repeat units into the pET15b expression vector with a His6-tag at the N-terminus, as was previously done for the leuA gene with two copies of the repeat units.
Variovorax paradoxus is an aerobic soil bacterium frequently associated with important biodegradative processes in nature. Our group has cultivated a mucoid strain of Variovorax paradoxus for study as a model of bacterial development and response to environmental conditions. Colonies of this organism vary widely in appearance depending on agar plate type.
Psychosis is rare in untreated patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) but the prevalence rises to 40% during dopaminergic treatment. So far, no systematic comparison of the psychogenic potential of different dopaminergic drugs had been performed.
Few studies have investigated the prevalence of dental caries among school children in the past decades in Sudan rendering it difficult to understand the status and pattern of oral health.
Photosystems are composed of two moieties, a reaction center and a peripheral antenna system. In photosynthetic eukaryotes the latter system is composed of proteins belonging to Lhc family. An increasing set of evidences demonstrated how these polypeptides play a relevant physiological function in both light harvesting and photoprotection. Despite the sequence similarity between antenna proteins associated with the two Photosystems, present knowledge on their physiological role is mostly limited to complexes associated to Photosystem II.
Neuroimaging studies have proved that hippocampus relate to the deficient of memory in patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Many studies in healthy subjects also shown that insular cortex (IC) be involved in the declarative memory. This study was designed to investigate whether insular cortex is involved in declarative memory deficits in patients with PTSD.
Current understanding of the associations between actual body weight status, weight perception, body dissatisfaction, and weight control practices among low-income urban African American adolescents is limited. The knowledge can help direct future intervention efforts.
This cross-sectional study, the first of its kind, uses baseline data on smoking prevalence among Buddhist monks in Northern and Central provinces of Lao PDR.
GenBank is a public repository of all publicly available molecular sequence data from a range of sources. In addition to relevant metadata (e.g., sequence description, source organism and taxonomy), publication information is recorded in the GenBank data file. The identification of literature associated with a given molecular sequence may be an essential first step in developing research hypotheses. Although many of the publications associated with GenBank records may not be linked into or part of complementary literature databases (e.g., PubMed), GenBank records associated with literature indexed in Medline are identifiable as they contain PubMed identifiers (PMIDs).
Differential expression of perforin (PRF1), a gene with a pivotal role in immune surveillance, can be attributed to differential methylation of CpG sites in its promoter region. A reproducible method for quantitative and CpG site-specific determination of perforin methylation is required for molecular epidemiologic studies of chronic diseases with immune dysfunction.
As FTA cards provide an ideal medium for the field collection of DNA we sought to assess the quality of genomic DNA extracted from this source for use on the Illumina BovineSNP50 iSelect BeadChip which requires unbound, relatively intact (fragment sizes &gt;or= 2 kb), and high-quality DNA. Bovine blood and nasal swab samples collected on FTA cards were extracted using the commercially available GenSolve kit with a minor modification. The call rate and concordance of genotypes from each sample were compared to those obtained from whole blood samples extracted by standard PCI extraction.
Extracorporeal photopheresis is a therapy for treatment of autoimmune diseases, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, organ graft rejection as well as graft-versus-host diseases. The exact mechanism how the combination of 8-methoxypsoralen plus UV-A irradiation (PUVA) acts is still unclear. We investigated the cell death of activated and non-activated lymphocytes after PUVA treatment as well as the rate of released blebs and their antigen composition.
miRNAs (microRNAs) are a class of non-coding RNAs that inhibit gene expression by binding to recognition elements, mainly in the 3' UTR (untranslated region) of mRNA. A single miRNA can target several hundred mRNAs, leading to a complex metabolic network. miR-16 (miRNA-16), located on chromosome 13q14, is involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis regulation; it may interfere with either oncogenic or tumour suppressor pathways, and is implicated in leukaemogenesis. These data prompted us to search for and validate novel targets of miR-16.
Endothelial cells play a major role in angiogenesis, the process by which new blood vessels arise from a pre-existing vascular bed. VEGF-A (vascular endothelial growth factor-A) is a key regulator of angiogenesis during both development and in adults. HGF (hepatocyte growth factor) is a pleiotropic cytokine that may promote VEGF-A-driven angiogenesis, although the signalling mechanisms underlying this co-operation are not completely understood.
Emerin is a nuclear envelope protein that contributes to nuclear architecture, chromatin structure, and gene expression through its interaction with various nuclear proteins. In particular, emerin is molecularly connected with the nuclear lamina, a protein meshwork composed of lamins and lamin-binding proteins underlying the inner nuclear membrane. Among nuclear lamina components, lamin A is a major emerin partner. Lamin A, encoded by the LMNA gene (lamin A/C gene), is produced as a precursor protein (prelamin A) that is post-transcriptionally modified at its C-terminal region where the CaaX motif triggers a sequence of modifications, including farnesylation, carboxymethylation, and proteolytic cleavage by ZMPSTE 24 (zinc metalloproteinase Ste24) metalloproteinase. Impairment of the lamin A maturation pathway causing lamin A precursor accumulation is linked to the development of rare diseases such as familial partial lipodystrophy, MADA (mandibuloacral dysplasia), the Werner syndrome, Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome and RD (restrictive dermopathy).
The utility of cervical electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) as a diagnostic tool is being investigated in clinical trials. We sought to assess the reliability of two different sizes of tetrapolar probes used in measuring cervical impedance.
Studies from around the world have shown that suicide risk is increased in cancer patients, but no previous detailed analysis has been carried out in England.
Bladder cancer is the second most common cancer of the urinary system. Early diagnosis of this tumour and estimation of risk of future progression after initial transuretherial resection have a significant impact on prognosis. Although there are several molecular markers for the diagnosis and prognosis for this tumour, their accuracy is not ideal. Previous reports have shown that UHRF1 (ubiquitin-like with PHD and ring-finger domains 1) is essential for cellular proliferation. In this study, we examined whether UHRF1 can be a novel molecular marker of bladder cancer.
In most Western populations, 5-10% of all breast cancer cases can be attributed to major genetic factors such as predisposing mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2, with early-onset cases generally considered as an indicator of genetic susceptibility. Specific BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations or different mutation frequencies have been identified in specific populations and ethnic groups. Previous studies in Greek breast and/or ovarian cancer patients with family history have shown that four specific BRCA1 mutations, c.5266dupC, G1738R, and two large genomic rearrangements involving deletions of exons 20 and 24, have a prominent function in the population's BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation spectrum.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin (XELOX) compared with 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) as first-line or second-line chemotherapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
The phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3K)-AKT pathway is activated in many human cancers and plays a key role in cell proliferation and survival. A mutation (E17K) in the pleckstrin homology domain of the AKT1 results in constitutive AKT1 activation by means of localisation to the plasma membrane. The AKT1 (E17K) mutation has been reported in some tumour types (breast, colorectal, ovarian and lung cancers), and it is of interest which tumour types other than those possess the E17K mutation.
Pancreas cancer is a dreaded disease with high mortality, despite progress in surgical and oncological treatments in recent years. The field is hampered by a lack of good prognostic and predictive tumour biomarkers to be used during follow-up of patients.
Oestrogens play a crucial role in breast carcinogenesis. Earlier studies have analysed the serum levels of endogenous hormones measured by conventional assays. In this study, we analysed the capacity of serum from breast cancer cases and controls to transactivate the oestrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) and beta (ER-beta).
Recently, preoperative chemoradiation therapy (CRT) for rectal cancer has been increasingly used as a neoadjuvant treatment. In the present study, the relation between histological response to CRT and immunohistochemical markers in biopsy specimens was investigated.
Ewing sarcoma is a paradigm of solid tumour -bearing chromosomal translocations resulting in fusion proteins that act as deregulated transcription factors. Ewing sarcoma translocations fuse the EWS gene with an ETS transcription factor, mainly FLI1. Most of the EWS-FLI1 target genes still remain unknown and many have been identified in heterologous model systems.
The type I insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF1R) is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase involved in cancer proliferation, survival, and metastasis.
Despite substantial improvements in childhood cancer survival, drug resistance remains problematic for several paediatric tumour types. The urgent need to access novel agents to treat drug-resistant disease should be expedited by pre-clinical evaluation of paediatric tumour models during the early stages of drug development in adult cancer patients.
Src family kinases control multiple cancer cell properties including cell cycle progression, survival, and metastasis. Recent studies suggest that the Src inhibitor dasatinib blocks these critical cancer cell functions.
c Kit (CD117) expression in tissues has been reported as a relevant target for specific therapy in some human malignancies, but has been poorly documented in breast carcinomas.
The use of minimally invasive ablative therapies in localised prostate cancer offer potential for a middle ground between active surveillance and radical therapy.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is selectively over-expressed in colorectal tumours. The mechanism of COX-2 induction in these tumours is not fully understood, although evidence suggests a possible link between nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and COX-2. We hypothesised an association between COX-2 expression and NF-kappaB-p65, NF-kappaB-p50 and IkappaB-kinase-alpha (IKKalpha) in both epithelial and stromal cells in human colorectal cancer.
We recently identified and validated UBE2C RNA as a prognostic marker in 252 node-positive (N+) breast cancers by means of a microarray study. The aim of this study was to validate UBE2C protein as a prognostic marker in N+ breast cancer by immunohistochemistry (IHC).
P53, EGFR and HER-2/neu are the most frequently studied molecular biological parameters in epithelial ovarian cancer, but their prognostic impact is still unequivocal. We performed a meta-analysis to more precisely estimate their prognostic significance.
Carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the testis is considered to be a precancerous germinal cell lesion, but the precise cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying transformation of CIS into invasive pluripotent cancer cells remain to be elucidated. Moreover, a satisfactory animal model for the experimental study of germinal tumours has not been developed to date.
Epidemiological evidence on meat intake and breast cancer is inconsistent, with little research on potentially carcinogenic meat-related exposures. We investigated meat subtypes, cooking practices, meat mutagens, iron, and subsequent breast cancer risk.
Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) originates the following two pathways, related to differentiated (d) vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) or to human papillomavirus (HPV)-related usual (u) VIN. Multicentric HPV infections (cervix, vagina and vulva) are common. We hypothesise that patients with a uVIN-related vulvar SCC more often have cervical high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSILs) compared with women with dVIN-related vulvar SCC.
Cervical cancer incidence in western Africa is among the highest in the world.
We examined cervical cancer incidence before and after nationwide cervical cancer screening was initiated in Taiwan in mid-1995.
KIT exon 11 mutations are observed in 60% of gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). Exon 11 codes for residues Tyr568 and Tyr570, which play a major role in signal transduction and degradation of KIT. Our aim was to compare the outcome of patients with deletion of both Tyr568-570 (delTyr) and the most frequent deletion delWK557-558 (delWK).
The human death-associated protein 3 (hDAP3) is a GTP-binding constituent of the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome with a pro-apoptotic function.
Few prospective studies have examined cancer incidence among vegetarians.
Epigenetic silencing of O(6)-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) by promoter methylation is associated with improved survival in glioblastomas treated with alkylating agents. In this study, we investigated MGMT promoter methylation in glioblastomas treated with temozolomide and radiotherapy in a single UK treatment centre.
Phytoestrogens are of special interest in prostate cancer research because populations in Asia with a high consumption of phytoestrogens have a lower incidence of the disease than comparable populations in Western countries.
Cytoglobin (Cygb) was first described in 2002 as an intracellular globin of unknown function. We have previously shown the downregulation of cytoglobin as a key event in a familial cancer syndrome of the upper aerodigestive tract.
Urinary tract infection (UTI) is one of the commonest acute infections presenting to primary care. Little is known of women's experiences of UTI; self-care strategies and key triggers for their consulting behaviour are also little known.
There are commonly-held views relating to what constitutes appropriate and inappropriate use of finite NHS resources. However, very little is known about how and why such views have an impact on consultation patterns.
Cancer follow-up has traditionally been undertaken in secondary care, but there are increasing calls to deliver it in primary care.
Cancer follow-up places a significant burden on hospital outpatient clinics. There are increasing calls to develop alternative models of provision.
GP appraisal is currently considered inadequate because it lacks robustness. Objective assessment of appraisal evidence is needed to enable judgements on professional performance to be made.
Cancer incidence among people with learning disabilities is rising. There have been no published studies of the needs and experiences of people with learning disabilities and cancer, from their own perspective.
There is growing interest in tackling the perceived 'sick note' culture in the UK.
The aetiology of autism is unknown, although prenatal exposures have been the focus of epidemiological research for over 40 years.
Feedback of treatment outcome during the course of therapy (outcome management) is increasingly considered to be beneficial for improving the quality of mental healthcare.
Psychiatric phenotypes are currently defined according to sets of descriptive criteria. Although many of these phenotypes are heritable, it would be useful to know whether any of the various diagnostic categories in current use identify cases that are particularly helpful for biological-genetic research.
There have been conflicting reports on whether the length polymorphism in the promoter of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) moderates the antidepressant effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). We hypothesised that the pharmacogenetic effect of 5-HTTLPR is modulated by gender, age and other variants in the serotonin transporter gene.
The short (s) allele of the serotonin transporter gene promoter (5-HTTLPR) may be associated with exposure to social adversities and the subsequent onset of depressive illness in adulthood.
Little is known about the cross-national population prevalence or correlates of personality disorders.
It has been suggested that rural-urban migration will have adverse consequences for older parents left behind.
Increasing numbers of people will die with dementia, many in the acute hospital. It is often not perceived to be a life-limiting illness.
Researching psychotic disorders in unison rather than as separate diagnostic groups is widely advocated, but the viability of such an approach requires careful consideration from a neurocognitive perspective.
Computerised cognitive-behavioural therapy (CCBT) might offer a solution to the current undertreatment of depression.
Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (LDX) is indicated for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children 6 to 12 years of age and in adults. In a previous laboratory school study, LDX demonstrated efficacy 2 hours postdose with duration of efficacy through 12 hours. The current study further characterizes the time course of effect of LDX.
Official Title: A Phase IIIb, Randomized, Double-Blind, Multi-Center, Placebo-Controlled, Dose-Optimization, Cross-Over, Analog Classroom Study to Assess the Time of Onset of Vyvanse (Lisdexamfetamine Dimesylate) in Pediatric Subjects Aged 6-12 With Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00500149 http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00500149.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most malignant kind of astrocytic tumors and is associated with a poor prognosis. In this retrospective study, we assessed the clinical, radiological, genetic molecular and treatment factors that influence clinical outcomes of patients with GBM.
Bevacizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor, has shown promising activity in recurrent malignant gliomas. We reported the treatment response for the combination of bevacizumab and chemotherapy in a series of six patients with recurrent malignant glioma and investigated the molecular alterations in cancer pathways using the surgical biopsies from these patients.
Recent studies have demonstrated the existence of a small fraction of cells with features of primitive neural progenitor cells and tumor-initiating function in brain tumors. These cells might represent primary therapeutic target for complete eradication of the tumors. This study aimed to determine the resistant phenotype of glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs) to temozolomide (TMZ) and to explore the possible molecular mechanisms underlying TMZ resistance.
Glioma is the most common primary brain tumor with poor prognosis. Temozolomide has been used with thalidomide to treat gliomas. We investigated the synergistic mechanism of these two drugs in vitro.
Cytosine deaminase (CD) converts 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in CD/5-FC gene therapy, 5-FU will be mostly converted into nontoxic beta-alanine without uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (UPRT). UPRT catalyzes the conversion of 5-FU to 5-fluorouridine monophosphate, which directly kills CD::UPRT-expressing cells and surrounding cells via the bystander effect. But the pharmacokinetics and the bystander effect of CD::UPRT/5-FC has not been verified in vivo and in vitro. Before the CD::UPRT/5-FC bi-gene therapy system is used in clinical trial, it is essential to monitor the transgene expression and function in vivo. Thus, we developed a preclinical tumor model to investigate the feasibility of using (19)F-magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((19)F-MRS) and optical imaging to measure non-invasive CD and UPRT expression and its bystander effect.
Apelin is an adipokine that contributes to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. The plasma levels of apelin increased in obese patients and diabetic subjects. This study aimed to investigate the effects of apelin genetic variants on type 2 diabetes and related quantitative traits.
Previous cytogenetic studies revealed aberrations varied among the three subtypes of rhabdomyosarcoma. We profiled chromosomal imbalances in the different subtypes and investigated the relationships between clinical parameters and genomic aberrations.
Nosocomial infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) could lead to increased morbidity and mortality. In 2006, VRE nosocomial spread became a reality in our hospital since the first VRE nosocomial infection in 2003. Little is known about the prevalence of coexistence with VRE and MRSA in the patients. The primary objective of the study was to identify the molecular characteristics of epidemic MRSA clones in our hospital and the prevalence of the coexistence with MRSA and VRE in same patients during the 2-year period, 2006 - 2007.
Human bocavirus (HBoV) is a newly identified human parvovirus that was originally detected in the respiratory secretions of children with respiratory infections. This study aimed to learn about the importance of HBoV infections by revealing the prevalence of serum antibodies against HBoV in Beijing population.
The usefulness of in-phase/opposed-phase imaging and diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) in differentiating benign and neoplastic vertebral fractures has been described. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the influence of the severity of vertebral damage on the diagnostic performance of these two technologies.
Hyaluronidase (Hyase) is an enzyme which hydrolyses hyaluronan (HA), a large nonsulfated glycosaminoglycan. Several genes have been identified to code for hyaluronidases in humans. Its role has only recently been underlined in the invasion of prostate cancer, colonic cancer, and breast cancer. Moreover, the findings were in agreement with some experimental results which showed that HA-derived oligosaccharides had angiogenesis-promoting activity. All these findings prompted us to investigate factors that had been characterized as putative invasive factors in different human breast cancer-derived cell lines.
It is recognized that Haemophilus influenzae isolated from patients with otitis media forms biofilms both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that biofilm formation in vivo might play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of otitis media, but the effect of antibiotics on biofilm has not been well studied. We investigated the impact of ciprofloxacin and azithromycin on bacterial biofilms formed by Haemophilus influenzae in vitro in this study.
Prevention is presently the only available method to limit radiation-induced lung morbidity. A good predictor is the key point of prevention. This study aimed to investigate if [(18)F]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) uptake changes in the lung after radiotherapy could be used as a new predictor for acute radiation pneumonitis (RP).
Complete tumour resection is important for improving the prognosis of brain tumour patients. However, extensive resection remains controversial because the tumour margin is difficult to be distinguished from surrounding brain tissue. It has been established that 5-amino-4-oxopentanoic acid (5-aminolevulinic acid, ALA) can be used as a photodynamic diagnostic marker and a photosensitizer for photodynamic therapy in surgical treatment of brain tumours. We investigated the efficacy of ALA photodynamically guided microsurgery and photodynamic therapy on VX(2) brain tumour implanted in a rabbit model.
Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) plays an important role in cell survival and death. However, the mechanisms involved are not fully understood. Therefore, we investigated the effect of inhibition of PARP on acute myocardial infarction (AMI) at different time points in rats.
The antitumor role of Ras association domain family 1A (RASSF1A) gene and its potential molecular mechanisms are not well understood. The objective of this study was to observe the antitumor ability of RASSF1A in hepatocellular carcinoma, and study the mechanisms of cell apoptosis induced by RASSF1A.
Tobacco use is the major risk factor for numerous health problems. However, only 5% of smokers can successfully quit without therapy owing to the highly addictive properties of nicotine. The serotoninergic system may be involved in smoking behavior because nicotine increases brain serotonin secretion, nicotine withdrawal decreases serotonin levels, and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antagonizes the response to nicotine withdrawal. Serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is the most important protein, as it adjusts the serotonin concentration in the synaptic cleft. There is a polymorphism in the upstream regulatory region of the 5-HTT gene, named 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR). Compared with the L allele, the S allele of the polymorphism is associated with decreased transcription efficiency of the 5-HTT gene. In this study, we investigated the relationship between this gene polymorphism and smoking behavior in Chinese males.
Increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is thought to play a major role in the pathogenesis of obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS). The reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase complex is an important source of ROS. The p22phox subunit is polymorphic with a C242T variant that changes histidine-72 for a tyrosine in the potential heme binding site. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between NADPH oxidase subunit p22phox gene polymorphism and OSAHS.
Previous studies show that sleep-related breathing disorder (SRBD) is common in patients with heart failure (HF) and is associated with increased mortality. This study aimed to determine whether there was significant difference of subjective daytime sleepiness between HF patients with and without SRBD.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by suppressing apoptosis and enhancing cell proliferation in the vascular wall. Inducing pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMC) apoptosis had been regarded as a therapeutic approach for PAH. Oridonin can cause apoptosis in many cell lines, while little has been done to evaluate its effect on PASMC.
Treatment with melatonin significantly reduces lung injury induced by bleomycin, paraquat and ischemia reperfusion. In the present study, we investigated the possible protective roles of melatonin in pulmonary inflammation and lung injury during acute endotoxemia.
The critical roles of polyamines in cell growth and differentiation have made polyamine metabolic pathway a promising target for antitumor therapy. Recent studies have demonstrated in vitro that some antitumor polyamine analogues could be used as substrates and oxidized by purified recombinant human N(1)-acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO, an enzyme that catabolizes natural polyamines), indicating a potential role of APAO in determining the sensitivity of cancer cells to specific antitumor analogues. This study evaluated, in vivo, the effect of APAO on cytotoxicity of antitumor polyamine analogue, N(1)-cyclopropylmethyl-N(11)-ethylnorspermine (CPENS) and its mechanism when highly expressed in human lung cancer line A549.
Acute rejection is one of the most important factors for prognosis following liver transplantation. With the use of potent immunosuppressants, acute rejection does not always present typical manifestations. Moreover, other complications often occur concomitantly after liver transplantation, which makes early diagnosis of acute rejection more difficult. Acute rejection is best diagnosed by liver biopsy. Differentiation of clinical manifestations and pathological features plays an important role in achieving individualized immunosuppressive treatment and prolonging long term survival of patients given orthotopic liver transplants.
Laparoscopy-assisted radical gastrectomy is gaining acceptance for treating early gastric cancer. However, few reports concerning the effectiveness of laparoscopy-assisted D2 radical distal gastrectomy (LADG) for advanced gastric cancer or data comparing the results obtained after open distal gastrectomy (ODG) are yet available. The aim of this study was to evaluate the method, feasibility and clinical result of LADG for advanced gastric cancer.
Increased triglyceride (TG) occurs in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), and apolipoprotein AV (apoAV) has been shown to lower TG levels. In the present study, we investigated plasma apoAV level and its relationship with TG and C-reactive protein (CRP) in ACS patients.
Homoharringtonine (HHT) is effective in treating late stage chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML), but little is known about long term maintenance during complete cytogenetic response. Long term efficacy and toxicity profiles of low dose HHT were evaluated in this study.
Increased signal intensity (ISI) in the spinal cord on T2-weighted MR images has been reported in some previous researches, however no study focused on the position of the ISI in the spinal cord and its potential value. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between ISI position and the outcome of surgical treatment for cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) patients.
Heart failure (HF) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, but current treatment modalities cannot reverse the underlying pathological state of the heart. Gene-based therapies are emerging as promising therapeutic modalities in HF patients. Our previous studies have shown that recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) gene transfer of Sarco-endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA2a) can be effective in treating rats with chronic heart failure (CHF). The aim of this study was to examine the effects of SERCA2a gene transfer in a large HF animal model.
Whether the low molecular weight heparin microcapsule coated occluder is helpful to endothelialization in atrial-septal defect models is uncertain. This study aimed to investigate the best conditions for low molecular weight heparin coated NiTi alloy occluder and provide the evidence of the efficacy and safety of atrial-septal defect occluders in vivo.
Curcumin can reduce the severity of seizures induced by kainate acid (KA), but the role of curcumin in amygdaloid kindled models is still unknown. This study aimed to explore the effect of curcumin on the development of kindling in amygdaloid kindled rats.
Preconditioning with remifentanil confers cardioprotection. Since Ca(2+) overload is a precipitating factor of injury, we determined the effects of remefentanil on intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) and its transients induced by electrical stimulation and caffeine, which reflects Ca(2+) handling by Ca(2+) handling proteins, in rat ventricular myocytes.
Researches in arterial elasticity have increased over the past few years. We investigated the effects of simvastatin on vascular stiffness in fat fed rabbits by ultrasonography.
Recent studies have suggested that p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signalling pathway plays an important role in hepatic fibrosis. This study explored the antifibrotic effect of oxymatrine on tetrachloromethane induced liver fibrosis in rats and its modulation on the p38 MAPK signalling pathway.
Hepatitis B is at particularly high risk of fibrosis progression. Unfortunately, the mechanism of hepatic fibrogenesis induced by hepatitis B virus (HBV) has not been fully understood to date. The aim of this study was to observe whether HBV can infect hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), and to examine the effects of HBV or HBV S protein (HBs) on the proliferation and collagen type I expression of HSCs.
Although maintenance care appears to be relatively commonly used among chiropractors, the indications for its use are incompletely understood. A questionnaire survey was recently carried out among Swedish chiropractors in order to identify their choice of various management strategies, including maintenance care. That study revealed a common pattern of choice of strategies. However, it would be necessary to verify these findings in another study population and to obtain some additional information best collected through an interview.
Complex psychopathological and behavioral symptoms, such as delusions and aggression against care providers, are often the primary cause of acute hospital admissions of elderly patients to emergency units and psychiatric departments. This issue resembles an interdisciplinary clinically highly relevant diagnostic and therapeutic challenge across many medical subjects and general practice. At least 50% of the dramatically growing number of patients with dementia exerts aggressive and agitated symptoms during the course of clinical progression, particularly at moderate clinical severity.
Malignant infantile osteopetrosis (MIOP) is a disorder of osteoclasts characterized by defective bone resorption and death in infancy. The multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) and their progeny (osteoblasts) are major components of the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment and are found in close contact with cells of hematopoietic origin, including osteoclasts. We hypothesized that MSC defects may be associated with osteoclast dysfunction and osteopetrosis phenotype.
Malignant transformation of mature cystic teratoma is a rare complication. While any of the constituent tissues of a teratoma has the potential to undergo malignant transformation, squamous cell carcinoma is the most commonly associated malignancy. Renal carcinoid tumors are rare and frequently associated with horseshoe kidney and renal teratoma. Renal teratoma rarely presents together with carcinoid tumor or adenocarcinoma. To the best of our knowledge, there has never been a report of renal teratoma coexisting with both carcinoid tumor and adenocarcinoma.
Adenoid cystic carcinomas are rare tumors with an indolent clinical course, but frequent local relapses. The identification of tumors with a higher relapse risk seems to be interesting. Hence we investigated parameters of glucose metabolism, which were found associated with poor prognosis in other malignancies.
The prostatitis syndrome is a multifactorial condition of largely unknown etiology. The new NIH classification divides the prostatitis syndrome into a number of subtypes: acute bacterial prostatitis, chronic bacterial prostatitis, inflammatory and noninflammatory chronic pelvic pain syndrome, and asymptomatic prostatitis.
The scientific value and informativeness of a medical study are determined to a major extent by the study design. Errors in study design cannot be corrected afterwards. Various aspects of study design are discussed in this article.
Organ-preserving surgery for renal tumors has become more common over the past two decades. At first, part of the kidney, rather than all of it, was resected only if there was an absolute indication for doing so, i.e., if the tumor was located in an anatomically or functionally solitary kidney or if renal failure was already present. Now that favorable oncological outcomes have been demonstrated, renal tumors are increasingly often removed with only partial resection of renal tissue even when the indications are less stringent, including when the other kidney is healthy.
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are chronic inflammatory diseases resulting from an inappropriate immune response, in genetically susceptible individuals, to microbial antigens of commensal microorganisms. This inappropriate response is promoted by certain environmental factors. Both diseases manifest themselves primarily in the gastrointestinal tract yet can, in principle, affect all of the organ systems of the body. The purpose of this review article is to heighten awareness of these diseases among physicians whose primary clinical activities lie outside gastroenterology.
Epilepsy is the third most common disease affecting the brain in the elderly. Current demographic trends will lead to an increased prevalence of epilepsy in the general population.
The postoperative management following solid organ transplantation requires close cooperation between family doctors, internists, the local hospital, and the transplant center.
The aim of the study was to assess quality of life (QoL) in patients with infiltrative form of Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO) during the combined pulse treatment with methylprednisolone and orbital radiotherapy, and also to search for the relation between the results of ophthalmopathy treatment and changes in QoL.
Adiponectin, a peptide hormone secreted from the adipose tissue, has anti-diabetic, anti-atherogenic, and anti-inflammatory properties and is also involved in the regulation of angiogenesis. However, there are discrepancies among the results of the published data regarding its pro- or anti-angiogenic properties. The aim of our study was to examine the direct effect of various adiponectin concentrations applied separately or in combination with thalidomide on the growth of the murine endothelial cell line HECa 10 in 24- and 72-hour cell cultures.
Homozygosity for interleukin-6 (IL-6) 174G_C promoter polymorphism has recently been associated with indices of metabolic syndrome; however, this problem has not been investigated in non-obese subjects. The aim of this study was to explore the relation between abdominal fat distribution and some inflammatory risk factors of atheromatosis and IL-6 174G_C gene polymorphism in non-obese healthy subjects.
Abnormalities in calcium phosphate (Ca-P) metabolism and Ca-P related hormones are well documented in patients with essential hypertension (EH), but less in patients with non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). The present study was designed to assess the responsiveness of parathormone (PTH) secretion to an oral phosphate (Pi) load (100 mmol) in patients with EH - NTS and hypertensive patients with NIDDM - CNT.
Pheochromocytoma is rare tumor with a highly variable clinical presentation. This report provides clinical picture, efficiency of diagnostics and treatment of pheochromocytoma in 8-years in the endocrinological center in Wroclaw.
The recent investigations point out the significant role of oxidative stress in the development of thyroid gland disease. The present study was designed to investigate the variation of oxidative stae in women with non-autoimmunological subclinical hyperthyroidism.
Several hot spots of severe freshwater pollution and sediment contamination (mostly heavy metals, polyaromatic hydrocarbons and polychlorinated biphenyls) have been identified in Serbia as the consequence of outdated environmental legislation, negligible amounts of properly treated waste waters and accidental spills.
The International Association for Danube Research (IAD), a legal association (Verein) according to Austrian law, presently consists of 13 member countries and 12 expert groups covering all water-relevant scientific disciplines. IAD, founded in 1956, represents a traditional and significant stakeholder in the Danube River Basin, fulfilling an important task towards an integrative water and river basin management requested by the EU Water Framework Directive.
The November 1, 1986 fire at a Sandoz Ltd. storehouse at Schweizerhalle, an industrial area near Basel, Switzerland, resulted in chemical contamination of the environment. The storehouse, which was completely destroyed by the fire, contained pesticides, solvents, dyes, and various raw and intermediate materials. The majority of the approximately 1,250 t of stored chemicals was destroyed in the fire, but large quantities were introduced into the atmosphere, into the Rhine River through runoff of the fire-fighting water, and into the soil and groundwater at the site. The chemicals discharged into the Rhine caused massive kills of benthic organisms and fish, particularly eels and salmonids. Public and private reaction to the fire and subsequent chemical spill was very strong. This happened only a few months after the Chernobyl accident and it destroyed the myth of immunity of Switzerland regarding such catastrophes.
Low glycemic index (GI) carbohydrates have been linked to increased satiety. The drive to eat may be mediated by postprandial changes in glucose, insulin and gut peptides.
While the majority of cases of nutritional anemia in developing countries are caused by iron deficiency, other micronutrient deficiencies may also be involved. In Colombia, it was recently reported that 38% of school children were anemic; yet, the rate of iron deficiency was only 3.6%.
Fractures represent a particular kind of pathology in children, as they take place within a rapidly growing organism. Condylar fractures must be focused upon not only as a cause of direct damage to the bone structure, but also with regards to future disorders in the dentofacial development, skeletal deformities and articular dysfunctions. The treatment aims at restoring function, occlusion, and symmetry. Aim of this paper is to emphasise, through the description of a case report, the need for correct diagnosis and the importance of a functional treatment by means of early muscle activation, in order to prevent any consequences on facial development.
Managing advanced head and neck cancer is often a difficult task, particularly when massive invasion of the carotid artery is present. However, en bloc resection can be a curative procedure, and reconstruction of the carotid artery limits the risk for stroke. The aim of this study was to describe the interest, indication, potential risks, and methods by which we carried out resections as well as reconstructions of the carotid artery using superficial femoral artery transplantation.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) most often begins in females in the fourth-fifth decade of their life, suggesting that the aging of the immune system (immunosenescence) has a major role in this disease. Therefore, in the present study, we sought to investigate the effect of age on arthritis susceptibility in BALB/c mice using the proteoglycan (PG)-induced arthritis (PGIA) model of RA.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the majority of developed countries. Cyclin E regulates the the G(1)-S phase transition of the cell cycle. Cyclin A increases during the S- and G(2)-phases, and is a regulator of the transition to mitosis.The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of cyclin A and cyclin E expression in primary, resected stage I-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
The prevalence of obesity has risen dramatically, with postmenopausal women particularly prone to increased adiposity. Epidemiologic data suggest that dietary calcium, particularly from dairy products, can decrease weight gain. The aim of this study was to evaluate effects of different calcium sources in a mouse model of postmenopausal obesity.
Cytotoxic activity of saponins and phenolic compounds have been described in the literature, but no reports were found on their multidrug resistance (MDR)-modulating effects on human mdr1 gene-transfected mouse lymphoma cell line.
The toxic effects of paclitaxel (PTX) on neonatal eyes have not been evaluated.
Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP) is a rare peritoneal carcinomatosis, characterized by a slowly progressive disease process with a large amount of mucus containing occasional epithelial cells. PMP is histologically classified into disseminated peritoneal adenomucinosis (DPAM), peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis (PMCA) and an intermediate or discordant feature group (ID). Recent studies have shown that most cases of PMP originate from ruptured appendiceal tumors with progressive dissemination in the peritoneal cavity of mucin-producing epithelial cells. Encouraging results in the treatment of PMP have been reported by surgical cytoreduction of the primitive cancer, peritonectomy (stripping of implants on the peritoneal surface) and intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemoperfusion (HIPEC). In recent trials, this combined approach has been proposed as the standard treatment for PMP.
This work presents a novel artificial prosthetic heart valve designed to be catheter or percutaneously deliverable, and a method for in vitro testing of the device. The device is intended to create superior characteristics in comparison to tissue-based percutaneous valves.
The intradialytic activation of leukocytes is a major cause of hemodialysis (HD)-associated complications. Contact between blood and HD membranes frequently induces the formation of microaggregates composed of activated platelets and leukocytes, causing leukocyte activation that includes the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This complex formation is mediated primarily by the interaction between P-selectin on activated platelets and its counter-ligands on leukocytes.
About 300,000 patients in the United States with Chronic Kidney Failure (CKF) are of working age, but up to 70% lose their job within the first year of renal replacement therapy .No study has examined how work ability and perceived health are influenced by the subjects' adjustment to their job. We assessed the association of occupational stress (Effort-Reward Imbalance, ERI),work ability (WAI) and health-related quality of life (QoL) in hemodialysis.
This article describes the experiences of clinical nurse specialists in a palliative homecare team who took part in a cluster randomized controlled study. The study aimed to determine whether palliative care nurses given basic training in cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) were able to use core components of this training when treating advanced cancer patients with anxiety or depression.
Inadequate bowel preparation is important because it can result in missed lesions, cancelled procedures, increased procedural time, and a potential increase in complication rates. This prospective study was designed to look at the quality of colon preparation using polyethylene glycol solution and evaluate potential associations between specific patient characteristics and inadequate bowel preparation.
Endoscopy-associated musculoskeletal injury has not been well studied. Our aim was to identify the frequency and significance of musculoskeletal injury among gastroenterologists compared with a similar group of nonprocedure-oriented internal medicine specialists and subspecialists.
Anal endosonography (AES) is able to reliably visualize and identify anal sphincter abnormalities. However, dedicated probes are quite expensive.
The genes that encode proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines are good candidate markers of host susceptibility to gastroduodenal disease. The present study was performed to evaluate whether or not the genetic polymorphisms of IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 are associated with gastroduodenal disease in the Korean population.
There is little data on the treatment of ESRD patients with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. We designed a pilot study to determine the initial and 12-week posttreatment viral response.
To evaluate the effect of a modified percutaneous transhepatic variceal embolization (PTVE) with 2-octyl cyanoacrylate (2-OCA) on the prevention and treatment of esophageal variceal bleeding.
Gastroesophageal reflux is implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma and chronic cough. To date most studies have focused on acid reflux measured by pH below the upper esophageal sphincter (UES). The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between cough and reflux through the UES into the pharynx.
In pancreatic surgery, bile duct stenting is often aimed at improving postoperative outcome. As implantation of xenograft material in the main bile duct facilitates bacterial contamination and cholangitis, a critical evaluation of stenting is mandatory.
The success rate of inferior alveolar nerve block (IANB) decreases in patients with irreversible pulpitis. It was hypothesized that supplemental infiltration of lidocaine and articaine may improve the success rates.
The purpose of this systematic review was to compare the clinical and radiographic outcomes of nonsurgical retreatment with those of endodontic surgery to determine which modality offers more favorable outcomes.
Surgical endodontic procedures require precise knowledge of anatomic structures that might be traumatized. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether differences in patient gender or age are predictive of differences in the relative location of the inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) compared with the roots of the mandibular first molar.
The microbial etiology of periradicular lesions is recognized; however, the bacterial profile of these lesions is not well elucidated. The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of bacterial colonization in these lesions and to characterize the bacterial community present in root ends and periradicular lesions.
This study aimed to determine the characteristics of patients with neuropathic tooth pain (NTP) who were selected from a group of patients who developed persistent pain after undergoing endodontic procedures.
The purpose of this study was to compare the accuracy of working length (WL) measurements by using the Root ZX II, Apex NRG XFR, and Mini Apex Locator with rotary nickel-titanium (NiTi) instruments.
The purpose of this national study was to assess endodontists' opinions regarding whether endodontists should place dental implants.
Various methods and materials are used in the treatment of dentin hypersensitivity. The aim of this randomized prospective controlled clinical trial was to evaluate and compare the desensitizing effects of the neodymium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet (Nd:YAG) laser and fluoride varnish by considering the degree of pre- and posttreatment pain, discomfort, and functional complications.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are important receptors mediating innate immune responses because they detect factors released from bacterial cell wall components during inflammatory reactions. However, the role of TLRs in dental pulp, which is bounded by hard tissues, is poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between the innate immune system and the defense of pulp tissue by using immunodeficient mice that lack an adaptive immune response
Microorganisms are essential in the development of periradicular diseases and are the major causative factors associated with endodontic treatment failures. Microbial biofilms are communities of bacteria that attach to surfaces and form heterogeneous three-dimensional structures. The purpose of this study was to develop a biofilm model that closely mimicked in vivo biofilm and to determine its susceptibility to endodontic antimicrobial irrigants by three-dimensional quantitative analysis.
The aim of this study was to examine whether Enterococcus faecalis isolates from endodontic patients (from saliva and from a root canal) are able to prevail against salivary bacteria when grown in coculture in a biofilm reactor.
Map-1B belongs to the family of proteins that govern the dynamic state and organization of microtubules within cells. MAP-1B is a microtubule-associated protein highly expressed during the development of the nervous system. Its expression, regulated by the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), is essential to stabilize microtubules during the elongation of dendrites and neurites. Other microtubules-associated molecules such as tau or MAP2 seem to act similarly. The aim of this work was to identify the MAP-1B expression in in vitro and in vivo human odontoblasts during development and carious processes. The expression of MAP2 and tau was also studied.
The secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) is a bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced product of macrophages that antagonizes the LPS-induced activation of a number of proinflammatory signaling factors. From our previous experiments, it was found that SLPI was expressed slightly in odontoblast-like cells (MDPC-23). Therefore, these experiments were designed to determine the function of SLPI in MDPC-23 and odontoblasts during the inflammatory response caused by infections and wounds.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the method of canal negotiation in the presence of differently C-shaped orifices using the micro-computed tomography technique.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of two imaging methods in diagnosing apical periodontitis (AP) using histopathological findings as a gold standard.
During the preparation of curved canals, rotary nickel-titanium (NiTi) instruments are subjected to cyclic fatigue, which can lead to instrument fracture. Although several factors may influence the cyclic fatigue resistance of instruments, the role of the rotational speed remains uncertain. This study was intended to evaluate the effects of rotational speed on the number of cycles to fracture of rotary NiTi instruments.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between dye and bacterial penetration through interim restorations used during endodontic treatment.
The use of chemical substances in endodontics during chemical-mechanical preparation may alter the structure of dentin, mainly collagen, which contributes considerably to the mechanical properties of this structure. This study evaluated the effect of different auxiliary chemical substances during endodontic treatment in root canal walls by implementing polarized light microscopy (PLM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) produces collapsing cavitation bubbles. This study aims to investigate the efficacy of collapsing cavitation bubbles to deliver antibacterial nanoparticles into dentinal tubules to improve root canal disinfection.
This study evaluated the bond strength of translucent fiber posts to experimentally weakened radicular dentin restored with composite resin and polymerized with different light-exposure time.
This in vitro study compared 3 agitation and 2 irrigation devices to ultrasonic agitation at mechanically removing bacteria from a plastic simulated canal, instrumented to 35/.06.
Hard-tissue debris accumulation is a potential side effect of root canal instrumentation that has not been systematically investigated. In the current communication, a method to assess this debris using high-resolution microcomputed tomography (microCT) is presented.
The present study was designed to investigate the bond strength produced by Epiphany and Epiphany SE to root canal dentin.
The antibacterial effectiveness of 7 different endodontic sealers, AH Plus, Apexit Plus, iRoot SP, Tubli Seal, Sealapex, Epiphany SE, and EndoRez against Enterococcus faecalis was studied in vitro.
Previous micro-computed tomography analyses of root canal preparation provided data that were usually averaged over canal length. The aim of this study was to compare preparation effects on apical root canal geometry.
The purpose of this article was to show the importance of the knowledge of the anatomy of root canals. Unusual root and root canal morphologies associated with both buccal roots of upper molars have been recorded in several studies in the literature. However, scientific information focusing on variations of the palatal root is rare.
The importance of respecting patients and participants in clinical research is widely recognised. However, what it means to respect persons beyond recognising them as autonomous is unclear, and little is known about what patients find to be respectful.
Vulnerability is a poorly understood concept in research ethics, often aligned to autonomy and consent. A recent addition to the literature represents a taxonomy of vulnerability developed by Kipnis, but this refers to the conduct of clinical trials rather than qualitative research, which may raise different issues.
Much of the research on adult children of alcoholics has focused on the transmission of drinking patterns from parents to their children and the development of alcohol-related problems. Less is known about how exposure to parental problem drinking affects children as they progress into adulthood in terms of other mental health outcomes. This is crucial information, in part because the average age of onset for depression and other mental health disorders is during late adolescence or young adulthood.
In this paper, mental health is discussed in the context of the system of innovation in health care. A set of mental illnesses is investigated in order to broaden our understanding of how they can be connected to the health innovation system.
Psychiatric inpatient hospital care was cut dramatically in Finland in recent last decades, and patients were assigned to care in the community. Consequently, the burden of care shifted from hospital districts to municipalities, which have considerable autonomy in organizing health and social services. These changes probably created locally differing service patterns in mental health care.
Approximately 17.1 million adults report having a major depressive episode in 2004 which represents 8% of the adult population in the U.S. Of these, more than one-third did not seek treatment. In spite of the large and extensive literature on the cost of mental health, we know very little about the differences in out-of-pocket expenditures between adults with depression and adults with other major chronic disease and the sources of those expenditures.
Information on clinically verified stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA) following Hodgkin lymphoma is scarce. We quantified the long-term risk of cerebrovascular disease associated with the use of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma and explored potential pathogenic mechanisms.
Merkel cell carcinoma is a rare malignancy of the skin. Integration of Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) DNA to the tumor genome is frequent in these cancers. The clinical consequences of MCPyV infection are unknown.
Adult survivors of childhood central nervous system (CNS) malignancies are at high risk for long-term morbidity and late mortality. However, patterns of late mortality, the long-term risks of subsequent neoplasms and debilitating medical conditions, and sociodemographic outcomes have not been comprehensively characterized for individual diagnostic and treatment groups.
Adding genotypes from seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), which had previously been associated with breast cancer, to the National Cancer Institute's Breast Cancer Risk Assessment Tool (BCRAT) increases the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve from 0.607 to 0.632.
Identification of hypermethylated tumor suppressor genes in body fluids is an appealing strategy for the noninvasive detection of colorectal cancer. Here we examined the role of N-Myc downstream-regulated gene 4 (NDRG4) as a novel tumor suppressor and biomarker in colorectal cancer.
Accuracy in the clinical diagnosis of asbestosis has significant implications for the future health of affected patients as well as serious medicolegal implications for both patients and asbestos-associated industries. The radiographic gold-standard for diagnosis of asbestosis has been the plain chest radiograph, and in many asbestosis-screening clinics, chest radiograph abnormalities in conjunction with a history of asbestos exposure have been the mainstay of diagnosis. No studies have yet compared the antemortem chest radiographic diagnosis of asbestosis with the subsequent presence of pulmonary fibrosis and lung tissue ferruginous bodies at autopsy.
Symptomatic calcaneonavicular coalitions treated with resection and interposition of the extensor digitorum brevis (EDB) muscle often have unpredictable improvement of symptoms. Concerns with regard to skin cosmesis from a bony prominence on the lateral aspect of the foot and inadequate filling of the resection gap potentially causing reossification have motivated us to use fat graft interposition instead. The purpose of this study was to describe our surgical technique and report our clinical and radiographic outcomes for fat graft interposition after resection of a calcaneonavicular coalition.
The Ilizarov technique is commonly used for lengthening and deformity corrections of the lower limbs in children. Postoperative pain can be significant, affecting quality of life and functional mobility, and often requiring prolonged medication use. Several studies have investigated the antinociceptive actions of botulinum toxin type A (BtX-A), yet evidence for its use in this population is limited. The objectives were to (1) establish the feasibility of a randomized clinical trial in children undergoing limb lengthening or deformity correction and (2) provide preliminary evidence of the beneficial effects of BtX-A in this population.
The majority of farm-related injuries in children are caused by farm machinery. The aim of this study is to report the incidence of children requiring hospitalization for orthopaedic trauma after injury secondary to farm equipment accidents.
The purpose of this study was to develop a triaging tool to predict pediatric in-hospital mortality from data available soon after emergency department (ED) presentation.
Radiographs can diagnose slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) on the anterior-posterior (AP) pelvis view and the frog-leg lateral view of the hips. On the AP radiograph, the lack of intersection between a line drawn parallel to the superior edge of the femoral neck (Klein's Line) and the epiphysis confirms a slip. Despite broad knowledge of the Klein's Line principle, application is difficult and inaccurate, especially in mild cases. On the frog-leg lateral radiograph, Southwick head/shaft angle and Wilson percent epiphyseal displacement commonly quantify the slip. Here, we set out to evaluate the intraobserver and interobserver reliability and the efficacy of these methods.
We sought to determine the functional outcome of patients with grade 3 slipped capital femoral epiphysis who had been treated with in situ pinning at a mid-term follow-up.
Few data are available concerning the indications, outcomes, or optimum timing of femoral osteochondroplasty in patients with late sequelae of septic arthritis of the hip.
Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) is a common birth defect and is thought to have genetic contributions to the phenotype. It is likely that DDH is genetically heterogeneous with environmental modifiers. The Utah Population Database (UPDB) is a computerized integration of pedigrees, vital statistics, and medical records representing over 6 million individuals, and is a unique resource providing the ability to search for familial factors beyond the nuclear family, decreasing the effect of a shared environment. The purpose of this study is to assess the degree of relationship between individuals with DDH.
Results from clinical trials are generally not shared with participants unless they are thought to affect their future medical care. Few institutional review boards require that participants receive results of the research. Research in this area has largely focused on life-threatening medical conditions, and little is known about sharing clinical trial results in other populations. The purpose of this study was to determine the experience of patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis who had participated in a clinical trial and the best method for sharing clinical trial results.
Stenosis and kyphosis are common in achondroplasia, often requiring lumbar fusion, sometimes to the sacrum. The purpose of this study was to determine the functional effect of lumbar fusion to the sacrum in patients with achondroplasia.
Angular deformity in the lower extremities results in cosmetic deformity, gait disturbance, pain, and early joint degeneration. Corrective osteotomy is the gold standard for angular deformity, but is a major surgical intervention with significant incidence of complication. For these reasons, hemiepiphysiodesis is an attractive alternative in the growing child to allow "guided growth" to correct the angular deformity. Physeal stapling has proven success, but hardware prominence or failure has been problematic. Recently, the tension band plate construct ("8-plate") has been promoted for hemiepiphysiodesis, citing ease of surgical technique and more rapid rate of correction. We sought to test the claim that the 8-plate effected a more rapid correction of angular deformity with a lower complication rate.
This study was intended to provide quantitative assessment of quadriceps muscle recovery in adolescent athletes after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction.
Children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy often develop internal rotation contractures with subsequent glenohumeral dysplasia seen on axial imaging. Coronal deformity (characterized by humeral head subluxation), and angular deformity (characterized by glenoid retroversion) have been defined. We hypothesize that the location of the biceps tendon characterizes rotational deformity.
Despite the growth in youth sports in the United States, there is little information regarding sports participation in children with impairments, and specifically those with brachial plexus birth palsy (BPBP). The purpose of this investigation was to characterize the degree of sports participation, level of perceived diminished participation, and risk of sports-related injury in children with BPBP.
Evidence-based clinical decision-making for the surgical management of thumb deformities in children with cerebral palsy is difficult, primarily because of a lack of consensus with respect to assessment of thumb alignment and function. We have used the Shriners Hospital Upper Extremity Evaluation, a validated assessment tool, to determine the outcome after thumb reconstruction surgery in these children. The goals of this study were to determine the relationship between static and dynamic assessments of the thumb before surgery, the outcomes with respect to static and dynamic alignments of the thumb after soft tissue and skeletal surgery, and the relationship between preoperative spontaneous functional use of the involved extremity (indicative of the magnitude of neurologic impairment) and the change in thumb dynamic alignment after surgery.
Unicameral bone cyst (UBC) is a benign bone lesion, recognized for its high rate of recurrence and need for repeat procedures to achieve healing. We hypothesized that the osteoconductive material apatitic calcium phosphate (alpha-BSM) could be effective in filling and stimulating resolution of UBC. The purpose of this study was to evaluate clinical and radiographic outcomes of UBC treated by a single injection of alpha-BSM.
We present the findings of a prospective, bi-center study to establish the appropriate duration of antibiotic therapy for acute, uncomplicated bone and joint infections in children. Historically, patients have been treated with prolonged courses of intravenous and oral therapy. Our hypothesis was that children could be safely treated with 3 days of high-dose intravenous therapy followed by 3 weeks of oral therapy.
There has been an increasing interest in the role of oxidative stress in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. To explore this further, we evaluated the activity of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione S-transferase (GST), as well as 3-nitrotyrosine levels and carbonyl content in patients in the early (within 3 years of illness onset) and late (a minimum of 10 years of illness) stages of bipolar disorder.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a recent intervention for treatment-resistant depression. Electrophysiological recordings in the rat brain showed that VNS increases the firing rate of norepinephrine (NE) neurons after 1 day of stimulation and that of serotonin (5-HT) neurons after 14 days. This study was conducted to further characterize these effects.
Suicide is the most serious consequence of major depressive disorder (MDD). Although the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC; Brodmann area [BA] 24) has been increasingly investigated for its role in the etiology of MDD, there is surprisingly very little information about the possible implication of this brain region in suicide. We hypothesized that changes in BA24 cell densities occur in depressed individuals who commit suicide, possibly reflecting an altered state of cortical plasticity that is thought to occur in depression.
Several studies have investigated volumetric brain changes in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and borderline personality disorder (BPD). Both groups exhibit volume reductions of the hippocampus and amygdala. Our aim was to investigate the influence of comorbid PTSD on hippocampus and amygdala volumes in patients with BPD.
Functional brain imaging studies have demonstrated amygdala and insula hyper-reactivity to probes of social threat in participants with generalized social anxiety disorder (gSAD). The amygdala and insula are known to serve broad functions in emotional processing, including integration of affective information. However, few studies have examined brain responses in socially anxious participants during general emotional processing. We examined brain response to emotionally evocative images in patients with gSAD and matched healthy controls.
Schizophrenia may be understood as a disorder of neural synchrony. There is also increasing evidence that emotional and social cognitive impairments are central to this disorder. In patients with first-episode schizophrenia, we examined whether emotion perception is associated with disruptions to high-frequency (40 Hz) gamma synchrony and whether these disruptions predict self-regulatory adaptive compensations reflected in social cognitive behaviours.
Young patients with anxiety disorders are thought to have a hypersensitive fear system, including alterations of the early sensorimotor processing of threatening information. However, there is equivocal support in auditory blink response studies for an enlarged auditory startle reflex (ASR) in such patients. We sought to investigate the ASR measured over multiple muscles (whole-body) in children and adolescents with anxiety disorders.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mutant mice show hyperphagia and hyperleptinemia. Animal and cell-culture experiments suggest multiple interrelations between BDNF and the serotonin (5-HT) system. We studied serum BDNF in patients with anorexia nervosa and its associations with peripheral indicators of the 5-HT system. To control for secondary effects of acute malnutrition, we assessed acutely underweight patients with anorexia nervosa (acAN) in comparison to long-term weight-recovered patients with the disorder (recAN) and healthy controls.
Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a public health problem that affects people across the entire social spectrum. However, no previous population-based public health studies have examined the prevalence of IPV in rural areas of the United States. Research on IPV in rural areas is especially important given that there are relatively fewer resources available in rural areas for the prevention of IPV.
This study assessed whether Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) were associated with higher rates of recommended primary care services for adult beneficiaries diagnosed with diabetes in Oregon's Medicaid program, the Oregon Health Plan (OHP).
Several classification systems exist for defining rural areas, which may lead to different interpretations of rural health services data.
Most nursing home care is provided by certified nursing assistants (CNAs), but little is known about rural CNAs.
The United States continues to have the highest rate of adolescent childbearing among developed countries. Lack of access and disadvantage contribute to this problem, which disproportionately impacts rural women. Given the increased difficulty rural young women face regarding contraceptive access, parental communication and support play an even more vital role in assisting them to navigate decisions about and access to contraception.
Higher prevalence of chronic diseases and reduced access to other health professionals in rural areas suggest that rural Medicare enrollees will benefit from pharmacist-provided drug therapy services (DTS).
One quarter of the persons living in the United States receive their emergency care in a rural hospital. Nurses employed in these hospitals see few emergencies but must be prepared to provide expert and efficient care when they do occur.
Access to psychiatric services, particularly inpatient psychiatric care, is limited and lacks comprehensiveness in rural areas.
National financial data show that rural referral center (RRC) hospitals have performed well financially. RRC hospitals' median cash flow margin ratio was 10.04% in 2002 and grew to 11.04% in 2004.
The 2000 US Census identified 50,454 Americans over the age of 100. Increased longevity is only of benefit if accompanied by maintenance of independence and quality of life. Little is known about the prevalence of dementia and other disabling conditions among rural centenarians although this information is important to clinicians caring for them.
The protease-activated receptor (PAR1) expression is correlated with the degree of invasiveness in cell lines. Nevertheless it has never been directed involved in breast cancer patients progression. The aim of this study was to determine whether PAR1 expression could be used as predictor of metastases and mortality.
Murine studies suggest that myeloid cells such as vascular leukocytes (VLC) and Tie2+ monocytes play a critical role in tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Myeloid cells are a primary cause of resistance to anti-VEGF therapy. The elimination of these cells from the tumor microenvironment significantly restricts tumor growth in both spontaneous and xenograft murine tumor models. Thus animal studies indicate that myeloid cells are potential therapeutic targets for solid tumor therapy. Abundant VLC and Tie2+ monocytes have been reported in human cancer. Unfortunately, the importance of VLC in human cancer growth remains untested as there are no confirmed therapeutics to target human VLC.
This study describes the efficacy of a new protamine zinc recombinant human insulin (PZIR) preparation for treating diabetic cats.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a common condition in geriatric cats. Diagnosis is based on the development of persistent azotemia with inadequate urine concentrating ability. Biomarkers are sought for early identification.
Serial arthrocentesis and synovial fluid examination can be used to monitor treatment efficacy in immune-mediated polyarthritis (IMPA), but whether this procedure induces inflammation that interferes with test result interpretation is unknown.
Eosinophilic inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract of dogs occurs in numerous disorders, typically resulting in diffuse intestinal thickening. Rarely, eosinophilic masses have been reported.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common heart disease in cats. Causative mutations have been identified in the Maine Coon (MC) and Ragdoll breed in the cardiac myosin binding protein C gene (MYBPC3). HCM is thought to be inherited in other breeds.
Various protocols using different doses of recombinant human thyrotropin (rhTSH) in TSH stimulation testing have been described. However, the influence of TSH dosage on thyroxine (T4) concentration has not yet been evaluated in suspected hypothyroid dogs.
Previous multidrug studies have identified the value of prednisolone in treating steroid responsive meningitis-arteritis (SRMA) and the potential value of acute phase proteins (APPs) and immunoglobulin A (IgA) in diagnosis and monitoring.
Polymicrogyria is a disorder of cerebrocortical migration resulting in increased numbers of small, disorganized gyri. This disorder occurs in Standard Poodles and in cattle.
Plasma D-dimer concentration is a useful marker to assess systemic coagulation and fibrinolytic activities in humans, dogs, and horses. Peritoneal fibrinolytic activity increases in horses with colic, especially in horses with endotoxin in the peritoneal fluid.
Exenatide is a degradation-resistant glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. It enhances the insulin response to hyperglycemia. Because of a poor insulin response, adult camelids are susceptible to hyperglycemia from stress, glucose administration, or energy metabolism disorders. Insulin often is administered to decrease plasma glucose concentration, but this approach has disadvantages such as the risk of hypoglycemia. Noninsulin medications targeting the incretin hormone pathway, such as exenatide, are providing alternate treatment options.
Regulatory T cells (Treg) have been shown to suppress antitumor immunity and often are increased in humans and rodents with cancer. However, Tregs have not been well studied in dogs with cancer and it is not known if certain tumor types are associated with increased Tregs.
Gene expression linked to sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium reuptake (SRCR) is altered in humans and animals with heart failure.
Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is decreased in humans with hypothyroidism, but information about kidney function in dogs with hypothyroidism is lacking.
Making a clinical diagnosis of pericarditis in cattle is difficult and additional diagnostic tests are needed to evaluate cattle with suspected pericarditis. Serum cardiac troponin I (cTnI) concentrations are increased in cattle with pericarditis, but the utility of measuring serum cTnI concentrations in cattle with suspected pericarditis in cattle remains unclear.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) determination has been used for 30 years to distinguish ACTH-dependent hyperadrenocorticism (ADHAC) from ACTH-independent hyperadrenocorticism (AIHAC) in dogs. However, the few studies that have evaluated its diagnostic accuracy, based in the majority of cases on older assays, have been associated with systematic, but highly variable proportions of misclassified or unclassified cases.
Both presurgical preparation and long-term support of nonoperable dogs with congenital portosystemic shunts (CPSS) require optimal dietary management. Studies suggested that protein source may play an important role, with vegetable and dairy protein sources having better effects on hepatic encephalopathy (HE) than meat proteins.
Renal carcinoma is a rare tumor of horses.
Contrast videofluoroscopy is the imaging technique of choice for evaluating dysphagic dogs. In people, body position alters the outcome of videofluoroscopic assessment of swallowing.
Transient hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysfunction occurs frequently in critically ill humans and impacts survival. The prevalence and impact of HPA axis dysfunction in critically ill neonatal foals are not well characterized.
Mitral valve regurgitation (MR) causes increased left atrial pressure (LAP) and is associated with occurrence of clinical signs. It will be useful to understand diurnal variations of LAP for the management of MR.
Noninvasive assessment of left-ventricular (LV) function is clinically relevant, but is incompletely studied in horses.
The etiogenesis of congenital portosystemic shunt in dogs is not understood. In Irish Wolfhounds, intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (IHPSS) is thought to be hereditary, but the mode of inheritance is unknown.
Plasma levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) are independently associated with risk of coronary heart disease, but whether CRP is causally associated with coronary heart disease or merely a marker of underlying atherosclerosis is uncertain.
Prior studies have demonstrated conflicting results regarding how much information novel biomarkers add to cardiovascular risk assessment.
No national data exist to examine use of bone-morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) in spinal fusion surgery.
The impact of STAT-3 expression on the apoptosis of human hepatomas cell SMMC-7721 line induced by X-ray and carbon ion irradiations was investigated.
Cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CBR2) inhibits microglial reactivity through a molecular mechanism yet to be elucidated. We hypothesized that CBR2 activation induces an anti-inflammatory phenotype in microglia by inhibiting extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway, via mitogen-activated protein kinase-phosphatase (MKP) induction. MKPs regulate mitogen activated protein kinases, but their role in the modulation of microglial phenotype is not fully understood.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), a much studied cellular model of synaptic plasticity, has not been demonstrated at synapses between primary afferent C-fibers and spinal dorsal horn (DH) neurons in mice in vivo. EphrinB-EphB receptor signaling plays important roles in synaptic connection and plasticity in the nervous system, but its role in spinal synaptic plasticity remains unclear.
Neurodevelopment requires thyroid hormone, yet the mechanisms and targets of thyroid hormone action during embryonic stages remain ill-defined. We previously showed that the thyroid hormone thyroxine (T4) rapidly increases voltage-gated sodium current in zebrafish Rohon-Beard cells (RBs), a primary sensory neuron subtype present during embryonic development. Here, we determined essential components of the rapid T4 signaling pathway by identifying the involved intracellular messengers, the targeted sodium channel isotype, and the spatial and temporal expression pattern of the nongenomic alphaVbeta3 integrin T4 receptor.
Lim-HD proteins control crucial aspects of neuronal differentiation, including subtype identity and axonal guidance. The Lim-HD proteins Lhx2/9 and Lhx1/5 are expressed in the dorsal spinal interneuron populations dI1 and dI2, respectively. While they are not required for cell fate acquisition, their role in patterning the axonal trajectory of dI1 and dI2 neurons remains incompletely understood.
Nurr1, a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of transcription factors, is highly expressed in midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Ret is a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) superfamily and a critical signal transducing subunit of receptors for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Both Nurr1 and Ret play important roles in the development of DA neurons.
How student nurses are permitted to participate in healthcare settings during placements is central to their skill development, formation of occupational identity and retention in nursing. Novices' participation and learning was mapped through their clinical experiences from student to graduate, as part of a multi-method longitudinal study examining nurses' workplace learning.
Information and communication technology is integral to contemporary nursing practice. Development of these skills is important to ensure that graduates are 'work ready' and adequately prepared to practice in increasingly technological healthcare environments.
The proportion of older people has increased worldwide and so are the health problems related with ageing, such as cardiovascular diseases and cancer that often need long-term nursing care. Nurses therefore, have a pivotal role in the care of older people.
The intake of dietary fibre has been shown to reduce the risk of developing diabetes mellitus. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of commercial rye whole-meal bread containing whole kernels and white wheat bread on the rate of gastric emptying and postprandial glucose response in healthy subjects.
Microsomal stearoyl-CoA desaturase1 (SCD1) is the rate limiting enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs); palmitoleic (16:1) and oleic (18:1) acid from their respective substrates palmitic (16:0) and stearic (18:0) acids. The ratio of 18:1 to 18:0 has been implicated in the regulation membrane fluidity and function. SCD1 is abundantly expressed in obese humans as well as rodent models. However, no studies have correlated the fatty acid desaturation index (16:1/16:0 and 18:1/18:0), an indicator of SCD1 activity with the markers of obesity in terms of body mass index (BMI) and adiposity index (AI). Therefore, here, we attempted to relate the fatty acid desaturation index with BMI and AI in Wistar NIN-obese mutant rat strains namely, WNIN/Ob and WNIN/GR-Ob (with impaired glucose tolerance).
Decisions involving risk often must be made under stressful circumstances. Research on behavioral and brain differences in stress responses suggest that stress might have different effects on risk taking in males and females.
Recent findings indicate that certain classes of hypnotics that target GABA(A) receptors impair sleep-dependent brain plasticity. However, the effects of hypnotics acting at monoamine receptors (e.g., the antidepressant trazodone) on this process are unknown. We therefore assessed the effects of commonly-prescribed medications for the treatment of insomnia (trazodone and the non-benzodiazepine GABA(A) receptor agonists zaleplon and eszopiclone) in a canonical model of sleep-dependent, in vivo synaptic plasticity in the primary visual cortex (V1) known as ocular dominance plasticity.
The serine protease autotransporter EspP is a proposed virulence factor of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC). We recently distinguished four EspP subtypes (EspPalpha, EspPbeta, EspPgamma, and EspPdelta), which display large differences in transport and proteolytic activities and differ widely concerning their distribution within the STEC population. The mechanisms underlying these functional variations in EspP subtypes are, however, unknown.
The placement of medical research news on a newspaper's front page is intended to gain the public's attention, so it is important to understand the source of the news in terms of research maturity and evidence level.
Phenotype and function of regulatory T cells (Treg) largely depend on the presence of the transcription factor FOXP3. In contrast to mice, human Treg cells express isoforms of this protein. Besides the full length version (FOXP3fl), an isoform lacking the exon 2 (FOXP3Delta2) is co-expressed in comparable amounts. Recently, a third splice variant has been described that in addition to exon 2 also misses exon 7 (FOXP3Delta2Delta7). Exon 7 encodes for a leucine zipper motif commonly used as structural dimerization element. Mutations in exon 7 have been linked to IPEX, a severe autoimmune disease suggested to be caused by impaired dimerization of the FOXP3 protein.
Lactate dehydrogenase-elevating virus (LDV) is a natural infectious agent of mice. Like several other viruses, LDV causes widespread and very rapid but transient activation of both B cells and T cells in lymphoid tissues and the blood. The mechanism of this activation has not been fully described and is the focus of the current studies.
YKL-40 is a chitinase-like glycoprotein encoded by the chitinase 3-like 1 gene, CHI3L1, localized at chromosome 1q32.1. Increased levels of serum YKL-40 have been reported to be a biomarker for asthma and a reduced lung function. Interestingly, the C-allele of the -131 C--&gt;G (rs4950928) polymorphism of CHI3L1 has been shown to associate with bronchial hyperresponsiveness and reduced lung function suggesting that variations in CHI3L1 may influence risk of asthma. The objective of the present study was to investigate the association of common variation in the CHI3L1 locus with asthma, atopy and lung function in a large population-based sample of adults.
Insulators and domain boundaries both shield genes from adjacent enhancers and inhibit intrusion of heterochromatin into transgenes. Previous studies examined the functional mechanism of the MYC insulator element MINE and its CTCF binding sites in the context of transgenes that were randomly inserted into the genome by transfection. However, the contribution of CTCF binding sites to both gene regulation and maintenance of chromatin has not been tested at the endogenous MYC gene.
Islets from adult rat possess weak antioxidant defense leading to unbalance between superoxide dismutase (SOD) and hydrogen peroxide-inactivating enzymatic activities, catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) rending them susceptible to oxidative stress. We have shown that this vulnerability is influenced by maternal diet during gestation and lactation.
Type 2 diabetes is treated in a stepwise manner, progressing from diet and physical activity to oral antidiabetic agents and insulin. The oral agent pioglitazone is licensed for use with insulin when metformin is contraindicated or not tolerated. This systematic review and meta-analysis investigates the extent to which adding pioglitazone to insulin-containing regimens produces benefits in terms of patient-relevant outcomes.
Streptococcus agalactiae (group B Streptococcus) is a bacterial pathogen that causes severe intrauterine infections leading to fetal morbidity and mortality. The pathogenesis of GBS infection in this environment is poorly understood, in part because we lack a detailed understanding of the adaptation of this pathogen to growth in amniotic fluid. To address this knowledge deficit, we characterized the transcriptome of GBS grown in human amniotic fluid (AF) and compared it with the transcriptome in rich laboratory medium.
Tuberculosis (TB) is the largest cause of death in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, having claimed an estimated one third to one half of the 30 million AIDS deaths that have occurred worldwide. Different strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTb), the causative agent of TB, are known to modify the host immune response in a strain-specific manner. However, a MTb strain-specific impact upon the regulation of HIV-1 replication has not previously been established.
Acute respiratory illnesses and influenza-like illnesses (ILI) are a significant source of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite the public health importance, little is known about the etiology of these acute respiratory illnesses in many regions of South America. In 2006, the Peruvian Ministry of Health (MoH) and the US Naval Medical Research Center Detachment (NMRCD) initiated a collaboration to characterize the viral agents associated with ILI and to describe the clinical and epidemiological presentation of the affected population.
Schizophrenia is a severe disabling brain disease affecting about 1% of the population. Individual microRNAs (miRNAs) affect moderate downregulation of gene expression. In addition, components required for miRNA processing and/or function have also been implicated in X-linked mental retardation, neurological and neoplastic diseases, pointing to the wide ranging involvement of miRNAs in disease.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are ubiquitous throughout the body, especially in brain, where they mediate numerous effects. MGluRs are classified into groups of which group I, comprising mGluRs 1 and 5, is especially important in neuronal communication. Group I actions are often investigated with the selective agonist, S-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). Despite the selectivity of DHPG, its use has often led to contradictory findings. We now report that a particular commercial preparation of DHPG can produce mGluR-independent effects. These findings may help reconcile some discrepant reports.
A significant increase in vitamin use has been observed in recent years and interactions between vitamins and medications have been reported.
Prompt diagnosis and decompression of acute lower extremity compartment syndrome (LECS) in the multisystem injured patient is essential to avoid the devastating complications of progressive tissue necrosis and amputation. Despite collaborative trauma and orthopedic management of these difficult cases, significant delays in diagnosis and treatment occur. Periodic system review of our trauma and orthopedic data for complications of LECS led us to hypothesize that delayed diagnosis and limb loss were potentially preventable events in our trauma center.
Most of the children with hydronephrosis do not require any surgical intervention. However, in individual cases, irreversible loss of renal function can develop. Predictive criteria have been proven ineffective so far in determining in which children obstruction will lead to renal damage. The aim of our retrospective study was to determine the role of a crossing lower pole vessel (CV) in children undergoing pyeloplasty.
Previous analyses of the safety of the conservative versus the operative approach to the treatment of liver and spleen blunt injuries in children often failed to account for differences in quality of care and expertise among dedicated pediatric trauma center, non-pediatric centers, centers without trauma units, and non-trauma centers. To eliminate this potential bias, the present study examined changes in the rate of surgery and their impact on outcome within the same medical centers over time.
Anterior urethral valves (AUVs) are uncommon congenital anomalies causing urethral obstruction in boys.
Resistive exercise after stroke can improve strength (force-generating capacity) without increasing spasticity (velocity-dependent hypertonicity). However, the effect of resistive load type on muscle activation and co-contraction after stroke is not clear.
Weight bearing through, or "loading" of, the paretic lower extremity and transfer of weight from one lower extremity to the other are important impairment-level goals of stroke rehabilitation. Improvements in these limb-loading and weight-transfer abilities have been shown to relate to improved performance of many functional activities. Unfortunately, valid and practical clinical measures of paretic-lower-extremity loading and weight transfer have not been identified.
To date, optimal strategies for the management of patients with cervical radiculopathy remain elusive. Preliminary evidence suggests that a multimodal treatment program consisting of manual therapy, exercise, and cervical traction may result in positive outcomes for patients with cervical radiculopathy. However, limited evidence exists to support the use of mechanical cervical traction in patients with cervical radiculopathy.
Subacromial impingement syndrome (SAIS) is a painful condition resulting from the entrapment of anatomical structures between the anteroinferior corner of the acromion and the greater tuberosity of the humerus.
Earlier studies have demonstrated low peak oxygen uptake ((.)Vo(2)peak) in children with spina bifida. Low peak heart rate and low peak respiratory exchange ratio in these studies raised questions regarding the true maximal character of (.)Vo(2)peak values obtained with treadmill testing.
Global climate warming can affect functioning of crops and plants in the natural environment. In order to study the effects of global warming, a method for applying a controlled heating treatment to plant canopies in the open field or in the greenhouse is needed that can accept either square wave application of elevated temperature or a complex prescribed diurnal or seasonal temperature regime. The current options are limited in their accuracy, precision, reliability, mobility or cost and scalability.
There has been a lack of published bench and preclinical data supporting the safety and effectiveness of a noninvasive, nonthermal, focused ultrasound technology for body contouring.
Expander/implant and autogenous tissue breast reconstructions have different aging processes, and the time when these processes stabilize is unclear. The authors' goal was to evaluate long-term patient-reported aesthetic satisfaction with expander/implant and autogenous breast reconstruction.
Partial breast reconstruction using reduction techniques has recently increased in popularity. Some fear that combining breast conservation therapy with partial breast reconstruction alters the architecture and will affect patterns of local recurrence and make postoperative cancer surveillance more difficult. The purpose of this series was to evaluate long-term postoperative cancer surveillance.
The innovative technique of three- and four-dimensional computed tomographic angiography allows us to analyze the areas of perfusion in commonly used free abdominal flaps in breast reconstruction, such as pedicled transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (TRAM) flaps, full TRAMs, muscle-sparing TRAMs, and deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flaps. The authors compared the vascular territories in these flaps.
Human adipose-derived stromal cells readily undergo osteogenic differentiation in vitro and in vivo. Thus, interest in their potential role in skeletal tissue engineering continues to escalate. Very little is known regarding the effects that energy delivered by means of third-generation ultrasound-assisted lipoaspiration may have on the osteogenic potential of these cells. The authors investigated whether differences in adipose-derived stromal cell yield, and the in vitro proliferation and osteogenic potential of these cells obtained by suction-assisted lipoaspiration or third-generation ultrasound-assisted lipoaspiration, exist.
The study of human autologous fat grafting has been primarily anecdotal. In this study, the authors aim to develop a murine model that recapitulates human fat grafting to study the fate of injected fat and the cell populations contained within.
Implant-based breast reconstruction is a popular option after mastectomy, but capsular contracture may detract from long-term outcomes. The authors have observed that breast implants covered with acellular dermal matrix (AlloDerm) are less likely to develop a capsule in the area where the implant is in direct contact with the acellular matrix. The authors tested this observation experimentally by comparing capsular formation around implants in the presence and absence of AlloDerm in primates.
Mechanical forces modulate wound healing and scar formation through mechanotransduction. In response to mechanical stimulation, neuropeptides are released from peripheral terminals of primary afferent sensory neurons, influencing skin and immune cell functions and increasing vascular permeability, causing neurogenic inflammation.
The supraclavicular island flap has been used successfully for difficult facial reconstruction cases, providing acceptable results without using microsurgical techniques. The authors use this regional flap in reconstructing various head and neck oncologic defects that normally require traditional regional or free flaps to repair surgical wounds.
Surgical treatment of unilateral long-standing facial paralysis requires transposition of new musculature to restore the function of the atrophied mimetic musculature. Facial reanimation with free neuromuscular flaps is actually the accepted standard treatment. Two-stage procedures have been used for years, with a total flap recovery time of 18 to 24 months. In 1998, Harii proposed single-stage facial reanimation using the latissimus dorsi flap, showing a faster recovery compared with two-stage procedures. The present study evaluated the results of the authors' center applying the single-stage facial reanimation.
The purpose of this clinical study was to establish liposuction and lipoinjection as a noncosmetic procedure in children to correct lipodystrophies.
External hemipelvectomy is the ultimate salvage procedure for locally advanced pelvic tumors, infections, and failed revascularizations. It is associated with high wound morbidity requiring surgical management. In this study, the authors analyzed their experience with primary and secondary reconstruction of hemipelvectomy wounds.
Closure with dermal sutures is time consuming, may increase the risks of inflammation and infection secondary to foreign body reaction, exposes the surgeon to possible needlestick injuries, and has variable cosmetic outcomes depending on each surgeon's technique. The absorbable INSORB dermal stapler is hypothesized to be faster and more cost effective than sutures for dermal layer closures and provides a safer and more consistent result.
The anterolateral thigh flap is commonly used for reconstruction of various soft-tissue defects. This article presents the authors' approach to one-stage reconstruction of composite soft-tissue defects using an anterolateral thigh flap with a vascularized fascia lata.
The purpose of this study was to differentiate between musculocutaneous and septocutaneous perforators of the tensor fasciae latae perforator flap; to evaluate their number, size, and location; and to provide landmarks to facilitate flap dissection. An additional injection study estimated the skin area of the flap.
Treating patients with Raynaud's phenomenon who have chronic pain and ulcerations is extremely challenging. Unrelenting pain can lead to dysfunction and disuse, rendering the patient debilitated and/or chronically depressed. Pharmacologic vasodilators and surgical sympathectomies offer variable benefits. Outcomes of symptomatic patients treated with botulinum toxin type A (Botox) injections for Raynaud's phenomenon are presented.
After flexor tendon repair, tendon gapping or rupture may be replaced by joint stiffness and poor function. After surgical repair of injured flexor tendons, botulinum toxin type A was injected into the forearm flexor muscles. This selectively decreased the force of muscle contraction. During this period of partial muscle denervation, patients could generate enough force to allow for early active mobilization (with its attendant benefits) but insufficient force to induce gapping or rupture of the repaired tendon.
Ulnar artery occlusion at the wrist and proximal palm can cause debilitating pain and tissue loss. There is disagreement in the literature as to whether the diseased ulnar artery needs to be reconstructed or merely resected. The authors report the long-term outcomes of patients treated surgically with reconstruction of the ulnar artery.
An important concern for patients who undergo a face lift is the recovery time. Use of the Harmonic blade (Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Cincinnati, Ohio) for surgical dissection and hemostasis in face lift has improved recovery time and greatly reduced the risk of hematomas in the senior author's practice.
Few data are available regarding the psychological impact of scars arising from routine elective/aesthetic surgical procedures. To gain insight into both patients' and clinicians' concerns, the authors have undertaken structured semiquantitative surveys of (1) patients who had recently undergone a routine surgical procedure and (2) a cohort of plastic and aesthetic dermatological surgeons.
One of the goals of lip augmentation is to recreate the natural shape and contour of the lips. The literature describes numerous fillers and multiple techniques for this procedure. However, there is a paucity of information regarding the anatomy of the fat layers of the upper and lower lips. While prosecting cadavers, the authors noted the presence of fat deep to the orbicularis muscle of the lip and a separate fat compartment deep to the mentalis muscle. This anatomy has not been previously described.
Fractional photothermolysis has become an important laser modality in management of a number of skin conditions and photoaging. The authors describe the scientific basis of fractional photothermolysis, report on most of the available devices, discuss their clinical uses and techniques, and attempt to decipher their relative efficacy.
Debate continues about what split-thickness skin graft donor-site dressing provides the best outcomes for patients at the lowest cost. The goal of this systematic review was to determine which donor-site dressings are associated with the best outcomes for the following: pain, infection rate, healing quality, healing rate, quality of life, and cost.
: Giant congenital melanocytic nevi are rare lesions with the potential to regress into malignant melanoma and/or neurocutaneous melanosis. Appropriate investigations include a screening magnetic resonance imaging scan, neurologic evaluation, and serial clinical observations looking for the development of these complications. Numerous excisional and nonexcisional options have been described for the management of giant congenital melanocytic nevi.
The purpose of this article is to review the biological classification system of vascular anomalies and present a comprehensive treatment approach to hemangiomas.
Laser applications have revolutionized the treatment of many cutaneous vascular anomalies. Because most of these lesions are congenital, the pediatric population has benefited primarily. In this article, the authors focus primarily on laser treatment options, realizing that this modality is but one part of an overall comprehensive plan of management options for these affected children.
The acute and reconstructive care of each pediatric burn patient presents unique challenges to the plastic surgeon and the burn care team.
Soft liners have been developed to offer comfort to denture wearers. However, this comfort is compromised when there is a change in the properties of the material, causing colour change, solubility, absorption and hardening. These characteristics can compromise the longevity of soft liners.
There is some evidence suggesting a role of TAAR6 in schizophrenia. The aim of the present study is to investigate possible influences of a panel of markers in TAAR6 (rs8192625, rs4305745, rs4305746, rs6903874, rs6937506) on clinical outcomes and side effects in a sample of Korean schizophrenic aripiprazole treated patients.
Relapse in schizophrenia is one of the greatest burdens of the illness.
A recent study reported an association between rs2234693, which influences enhancer activity levels in estrogen receptor alpha gene (ESR1), and schizophrenia. This study reported that schizophrenic patients with the CC genotype have significantly lower ESR1 mRNA levels in the prefrontal cortex than patients with other genotypes. The symptoms of methamphetamine induced psychosis are similar to those of paranoid type schizophrenia. Therefore, we conducted an association analysis of rs2234693 with Japanese methamphetamine induced psychosis patients.
Several lines of evidence implicate abnormalities in glutamate neural transmission in the pathophysiology of mood disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BP). Preclinical antidepressant effects were also reported for group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (Group II mGluRs) antagonists show dose-dependent antidepressant-like effects in murine models of depression. Also, it has been suggested that abnormalities in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and serotonergic neural transmission are important mechanisms in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. Group II mGluRs play an important role in regulating the function of these mechanisms. From these results, it has been suggested that abnormalities in Group II mGluRs might be involved in the pathophysiology of mood disorders, including MDD) and BP, and may influence the clinical response to treatment with SSRIs in MDD. Therefore, we studied the association between Group II mGluR genes (GRM2 and GRM3) and mood disorders and the efficacy of fluvoxamine treatment in Japanese MDD patients.
The increasing recognition that not all hastened death is irrational challenges clinical practice.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a significant public health concern. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about 1.4 million people in the United States sustain a TBI annually.
Delirium is a neurobehavioral syndrome caused by the transient disruption of normal neuronal activity secondary to systemic disturbances.
Falls and delirium in general-hospital inpatients are related to increases in morbidity, mortality, and healthcare costs. Patients fall despite safeguards and programs to reduce falling.
Depression is highly prevalent in patients with physical illness and is associated with a diminished quality of life and poorer medical outcomes.
Delirium is an important problem especially in older medical inpatients.
Delirium is an acute confusional state that is common, preventable, and life-threatening.
The phenomenology of delirium needs further elucidation using validated tools.
The long-term clinical outcome for children affected by hemolytic uremic syndrome associated with verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia coli (VTEC-HUS) is well documented, but the parental experience is not.
The prevalence and consequences of comorbid pain and depression in gynecology patients are understudied.
Uterovaginal agenesis (Mayer-Rokitansky-Kster-Hauser Syndrome; MRKH) is a congenital nonformation of the vagina and the uterus, but with normal ovaries.
Paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction is associated with a high rate of psychiatric comorbidities, including mood, anxiety, somatoform, and personality disorders, and psychosocial distress.
Bell's mania (mania with delirium) is an acute neurobehavioral syndrome of unknown etiology that is characterized by the rapid onset of grandiosity, psychomotor excitement, emotional lability, psychosis, and sleep disruption consistent with mania, coupled with alterations in sensorium, and disorientation characteristic of delirium. Catatonia is a common feature of the syndrome.
Catatonia is a often a complex syndrome. It has been divided into categories of simple and malignant, with the latter being a more severe form involving autonomic instability and/or fever and having a higher mortality rate.
Genital herpes is a common and painful infection. Its prevalence within the United States is estimated to be 40 million to 60 million people. Three medications, acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famciclovir, have been shown to reduce the duration and severity of the disease.
In case reports and observational studies, serotonin reuptake-inhibitors (SSRIs) have been linked to an increased risk of bleeding, possibly due to platelet dysfunction as a consequence of serotonin-uptake blockade into platelets.
Preference-based health index scores provide a single summary score assessing overall health-related quality of life and are useful as an outcome measure in clinical studies, for estimating quality-adjusted life years for economic evaluations, and for monitoring the health of populations. We predicted EuroQoL (EQ-5D) index scores from patient-reported outcomes measurement information system (PROMIS) global items and domain item banks.
Excessive oxidative stress has been reported to be generated in inflamed tissues and contribute to the pathogenesis of inflammatory lung diseases, exacerbations of which induced by viral infections are associated with toll-like receptor (TLR) activation. Among these receptors, TLR8 has been reported as a key receptor that recognizes single-strand RNA virus. However, it remains unknown whether TLR8 signaling is potentiated by oxidative stress. The aim of this study is to examine whether oxidative stress modulates TLR8 signaling in vitro.
The EQ-5D is a widely used generic health-related quality of life instrument that has been used to describe population health and health outcomes in clinical trials and health economic evaluations.
In numerous scientific studies, oral antibiotic bowel preparation has reduced surgical site infections in patients undergoing colorectal surgery. The historical evolution of antibiotic bowel preparation is presented with a review of the scientific basis of its effectiveness.
Candida krusei (Ck) may cause severe infections in immunocompromised hosts and is innately resistant to fluconazole.
Streptococcus milleri group bacteria (SMG) frequently are involved in purulent infections, often resulting in abscess formation with a high recurrence rate. Blood stream infections with these organisms are infrequent.
Residual topical hemostatic material can serve as a nidus for infection or enhance infection in an already contaminated wound. A newly approved agent, Microporous Polysaccharide Hemospheres (MPH) (Arista AH), has rapid degradation properties, which may reduce the chance of surgical site infection.
Abdominal actinomycosis has not been reported after elective cholecystectomy.
Transfusion rates remain high in cardiac and orthopedic surgery and differ widely across physician practices in spite of growing knowledge that allogeneic blood transfusion (ABT) is associated with a risk of postoperative infection.
Silver has been used extensively throughout recorded history for a variety of medical purposes.
Silver has long been known for its antimicrobial properties, and has been used with success for more than a century in informal medical applications. Recently, silver has been incorporated into medical devices and dressings.
Neutropenic enterocolitis (NE) is characterized by fever, abdominal pain, and neutropenia. Observed most commonly in relation to solid, hematologic, and lymphoproliferative malignant tumors and their treatment, this disease entity may involve a wide area of the gastrointestinal tract. We report the first case of NE with isolated appendiceal involvement in a non-oncologic neutropenic patient who was managed successfully medically. In addition, we formally recognize neutropenic appendicitis as a variant of NE and differentiate it from acute non-neutropenic appendicitis.
Neutropenic enterocolitis, sometimes called typhilitis, is the most common gastrointestinal infection related to neutropenia, but its rarity, confusing terminology, and protean, non-specific manifestations result in variable approaches to diagnosis and management.
The multi-arm multi-stage (MAMS) trial is a new paradigm for conducting randomised controlled trials that allows the simultaneous assessment of a number of research treatments against a single control arm. MAMS trials provide earlier answers and are potentially more cost-effective than a series of traditionally designed trials. Prostate cancer is the most common tumour in men and there is a need to improve outcomes for men with hormone-sensitive, advanced disease as quickly as possible. The MAMS design will potentially facilitate evaluation and testing of new therapies in this and other diseases.
ISRCTN78818544, NCT00268476.
Palmaris longus (PL) has received a growing interest for its role in constructive surgery. Since the agenesis of PL shows a strong racial variation, it is conceivable that its prevalence on the Yoruba ethnic population in Nigeria will further confirm this phenomenon.
Cataract extraction is the most commonly performed surgery in the National Health Service. Myopia increases the risk of postoperative rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD). The aim of this study was to determine the incidence and rate of RRD seven years after cataract extraction in highly myopic eyes.
Non-epithelial breast malignancies include primary lymphomas, sarcomas, haematological malignancies, melanomas as well as secondary metastases to the breast. They account for less than 1% of all breast tumours. The demographics and clinical features are similar to epithelial breast cancers but the prognosis and management options are often very different. Most reported series are small with limited follow-up. The main aim of this study was to review our experience for these malignancies and to compare this with the published literature.
To describe a clampless approach made possible by creating an avascular plane of tissue with radiofrequency ablation. Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is slowly gaining acceptance as a method to treat small (&lt;4 cm) and select moderate (&lt;7 cm) renal masses. The intricacies of laparoscopic suturing, which result in prolonged warm ischemia times, have delayed the widespread acceptance of this technique among urologists. Laparoscopic suturing to close the collecting system was done using the da Vinci robot.
The genetic diversity of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is critical to lay the groundwork for the design of successful drugs or vaccine. In this study we aimed to characterize and define the molecular prevalence of HIV-1 subclade F1 currently circulating in So Paulo, Brazil.
One of the major issues in transplantation is to find a strategy to overcome the scarcity of human organs. One of the interventions under investigation is represented by xenotransplantation. The present study aimed to understand the role of psychological factors on people's perception of xenotransplantation. In particular, we tested a condition in which different alternatives (e.g., human vs. pig donors) are presented together allowing people to compare among them (joint evaluation) and two conditions in which people are presented with only one of the two alternatives and cannot compare them (separate evaluation).
We have studied cellular components required for xenograft survival mediated by anti-CD154 monoclonal antibody (mAb) and a transfusion of donor spleen cells and found that the elimination of CD4(+) but not CD8(+) cells significantly improves graft survival. A contribution of other cellular components, such as natural killer (NK) cells and natural killer T (NKT) cells, for costimulation blockade-induced xenograft survival has not been clearly defined. We therefore tested the hypothesis that NK or NKT cells would promote rat islet and skin xenograft acceptance in mice.
Identification of transplanted human cells in mouse models is important for studying the biology and therapeutic potential of stem/progenitor cells. As stem/progenitor cells are often transplanted in low numbers, detection of cell engraftment requires sensitive tools. Probes for single copy genes, as well as repetitive genetic elements are available for detecting transplanted cells, although their value relative to one another had not been defined.
Metabolic compatibility between donor and recipient species is an important matter for pig islet xenotransplantation. Glucagon is a key hormone for the function of pig islets as well as control of hypoglycemia in the recipients of the islets. Because a discrepancy exists in the composition of glucagon cells of pig and human/primate islets, the present study was designed to determine the role of native recipient glucagon cells in the treatment of diabetes by islet transplantation in a "pig-to-primate" model.
The presence of multiple copies of porcine endogenous retrovirus (PERV) within the pig genome, and the demonstration that replication competent PERV, that infect human cells in culture, can be isolated from pig cells, directly impacts the drive towards the development of pigs for xenotransplantation. The development of technology to produce pigs that do not propagate PERV has the potential to facilitate the development of xenotransplantation products for human use, and as such, is the focus of this investigation. The shear number of PERV loci, most of which are defective or pseudogenes, renders conventional gene targeting impractical, if not impossible, to inactivate all PERV provirus within the pig genome, including potential replication competent PERV arising from spontaneous recombination. The recently developed RNA interference (RNAi) technology to knockdown/silence post-transcriptional gene expression, offers a promising alternative to achieving this goal.
To investigate and evaluate the biomechanical properties of adult-excised porcine trachea, thereby providing experimental methods and evidence for biomedical engineering of artificial trachea.
Systemic Sclerosis (SSc) is an inflammatory disease that decreases functional capacity through muscular atrophy, skin sclerosis and loss of joint function. Scleroderma patients suffer from movement's restriction. In addition, the disease affects the nutritional status, compromising the quality of life in varying degrees. The gastrointestinal involvement appears to be the main responsible for the nutritional impairment.
Pulmonary hemosiderosis (PH) is characterized by recurrent diffuse intra-alveolar hemorrhage associated to the presence of hemosiderin deposits inside macrophages. In the present Pediatric Rheumatology Service, during a 24 years period, 143 patients had JDM diagnosis and only one of them had associated PH (0.7%). There is no previous case report of PH and juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) associated.
The International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISCSCI) is the gold standard for evaluating and classifying the neurological consequence of spinal cord injury (SCI).
Tinea of the eyebrows is a part of tinea capitis. M. canis, T. violaceum, T. verrucosum and T. mentagrophytes are the most frequently implicated fungi in tinea of the eyebrows.
Although adverse reactions to local anesthetics are often diagnosed as local anesthetic allergy, there is evidence that most of these reactions occur via non-allergic mechanisms.
The objective was to investigate the status of vascular calcification, and to explore factors influencing vascular calcification in maintenance hemodialysis patients.
Infection constitutes a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in hemodialysis (HD) patients. The type of vascular access is an important determinant of the risk of infection. Therefore, identification of risk factors leading to catheter-related bacteremia (CRB) is strongly required. The aim of this prospective large cohort study of HD patients using only catheters as vascular access was to isolate risk factors for CRB.
Ultrapure dialysate (UD) might contribute to improvements in the morbidity and mortality of hemodialysis (HD) patients. However, it is unclear whether increasing dialysate purity affects chronic inflammation, oxidative stress, and lipid abnormalities.
Local inflammation and neovascularization have a negative influence on peritoneal dialysis (PD). Patients with higher peritoneal transport have higher interleukin-6 (IL-6) and vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) levels in their dialysate. However, the relationship of other members of the VEGF family, such as VEGF-C, to peritoneal transport or ultrafiltration (UF) is yet to be studied.
It is well established that the serotonergic system (SS) plays important roles in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. However, the impact of serotonin and its inter-relation with the sympathoadrenal system (SAS) in chronic heart failure (CHF) is poorly understood.
The aim of this study was to investigate the uptake and release kinetics of two common glaucoma drugs delivered onto hydrogel contact lenses using analytical chemistry and to evaluate this device's ability to control intraocular pressure in a limited number of volunteers.
Inherited red-green colour vision defects are quite common, affecting one in 12 males, but are less common in women, affecting about one in 250. Because red-green defects are X-linked, nearly 15 per cent of females are heterozygous carriers of red-green colour deficiency. In addition, about one in 150 females are 'double carriers', where both of their X chromosomes have L/M gene arrays encoding a red-green defect. If a woman carries the same type of colour vision defect on each X-chromosome, she will be red-green colour deficient, whereas if she carries opposing defects (protan versus deutan) on each X chromosome, she will have normal colour vision, owing to the process of X-inactivation. These women are referred to as compound heterozygotes, though very few have been reported. Questions remain about whether the colour vision capacity of these women is comparable to that of 'normal' trichromats.
Competency standards for entry-level to the profession of optometry in Australia were first developed in 1993, revised in 1997 and expanded in 2000 to include therapeutic competency standards. The entry-level standards cover the competencies required by a person entering the profession without therapeutic endorsement of their registration. The therapeutic competency standards address the additional competencies required for therapeutic endorsement of registration. This paper presents a revised version of the universal (entry-level) and therapeutic competency standards for the profession of optometry in Australia in 2008.
Risk stratification in major colorectal surgery, in general, has used preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative variables, and has been used for purposes of comparative audit. To enable preoperative clinical use, this study aimed to stratify risk by use of preoperative risk factors only.
Training future endoscopists is essential to meeting the increasing demands for colonoscopy. It remains unknown whether adenoma detection rates are adversely affected by trainee participation.
Sorafenib (Nexavar) is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor with anti-angiogenic and antiproliferative effects. It has shown in-vitro and clinical activity against several kinds of tumors, such as malignant melanoma.
Due to the requirements of the EU Water Framework Directive and other legal regulations (e.g., national laws like the German Federal Soil Protection Act), but also due to the implementation of the new EU chemicals management system REACH, environmental monitoring will gain increasing importance for the surveillance of environmental quality as well as for the assessment of chemicals. Against this background, the Work Group on 'Environmental Monitoring' of the Division of 'Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology' within the German Chemical Society has compiled a position paper on substance-related environmental monitoring.
CD1d is a monomorphic antigen presentation molecule expressed in several hematologic malignancies. Alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) is a glycolipid that can be presented to cytotoxic CD1d-restricted T cells. These reagents represent a potentially powerful tool for cell mediated immunotherapy.
Biphenotypic acute leukemia is a rare disorder that is difficult to diagnose. It displays features of both myeloid and lymphoid lineage. There is still a lack of studies in biphenotypic acute leukemia in a Chinese population. We present here a comprehensive investigation of the clinical and biological characteristics, and outcome of biphenotypic acute leukemia in our hospital in over a seven year period.
A variety of immune pathways can lead to graft-versus-host disease. A better understanding of the type of immune response causing graft-versus-host disease in defined clinical hematopoietic stem cell transplant settings is required to inform development of methods for monitoring patients and providing them tailored care.
Most cell types, including blood--and vascular cells, produce microparticles upon activation. Since cellular microparticles are known to be elevated in thromboembolic diseases, we hypothesized a role for microparticles in the pathogenesis of thrombosis in essential thrombocythemia.
In vitro depletion of alloreactive T cells using the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib is a promising approach to prevent graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. We have previously described the ability of bortezomib to selectively eliminate alloreactive T cells in a mixed leukocyte culture, preserving non-activated T cells. Due to the role of regulatory T cells in the control of graft versus host disease, in the current manuscript we have analyzed the effect of bortezomib in regulatory T cells.
The loss of cell cycle regulation due to abnormal function of cyclin-dependent kinases (cdk) occurs in tumors and leads to genetic instability of chemotherapy-resistant cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of the cdk inhibitor flavopiridol in anaplastic large cell lymphomas, in which unrestrained proliferation depends on NPM-ALK tyrosine kinase activity.
The redox-active isoflavene anti-cancer drug, phenoxodiol, has previously been shown to inhibit plasma membrane electron transport and cell proliferation and promote apoptosis in a range of cancer cell lines and in anti-CD3/anti-CD28-activated murine splenocytes but not in non-transformed WI-38 cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
Lymphoid neoplasm with 18q21.3/BCL2 and 8q24/MYC translocation to immunoglobulin (IG) genes as dual-hit lymphoma/leukemia is very rare and known to have a poor clinical outcome.
The mammalian target of rapamycin is a conserved protein kinase known to regulate protein synthesis, cell size and proliferation. Aberrant regulation of mammalian target of rapamycin activity has been observed in hematopoietic malignancies, including acute leukemias and myelodysplastic syndromes, suggesting that correct regulation of mammalian target of rapamycin is critical for normal hematopoiesis.
Host and viral factors can promote the development of fulminant hepatitis B (FHB), but there have been no case-control studies for figuring out virological parameters that can distinguish FHB.
Short small-for-gestational-age (SGA) children experience pre- and postnatal growth restriction, which might be influenced by polymorphisms in the IGF1 gene. The well-known -841(CA)(n)/192 bp polymorphism has been associated with birth size and cardiovascular disease.
There is limited information regarding the effects of IGF-I and/or IGFBP-3 on circulating leptin concentrations.
Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis (CAT) displays a strong female predominance with female-to-male (F:M) ratios of 4-20:1 in adults and 2-9:1 in children and adolescents. Both genetic and hormonal factors are involved in this phenomenon. The relation between puberty and F:M ratio in CAT has never been evaluated.
Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAS) may be activated during atrial fibrillation (AF). It is unclear whether RAS inhibition may facilitate cardioversion from AF and may prevent acute recurrence of AF (ARAF). We thus investigated the effect of pretreatment with RAS blockers on cardioversion success and ARAF in patients with AF scheduled for elective cardioversion.
Economic evaluation of healthcare technologies is becoming increasingly relevant, enabling decision makers to assess and compare treatments within the context of costs and outcomes. Moreover, it is increasingly important for clinicians and prescribers to have some understanding of economic evaluation. For attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), economic evaluations have largely focused on pharmacotherapy, and results indicate that such treatments are cost-effective compared with other interventions.
There is widespread popular belief that balneotherapy is effective in the treatment of various ailments.
Methadone is an opioid analgesic of step 3 of the World Health Organization (WHO) analgesic ladder.
A higher anticholinergic risk score (ARS) is associated with an increased risk of anticholinergic adverse effects in elderly patients. It is unknown whether factors other than the use of anticholinergic drugs determine the ARS.
Cyanoacrylate glue is commonly used for approximation of skin after various surgical procedures.
Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a febrile disorder of unknown aetiology characterised by typical spiking fever, evanescent rash, arthralgia and leucocytosis.
Most patients with Fusarium infection present with affection of the tegumentary system, with the presence of necrotic and/or inflammatory lesions associated with pain.
Dermatophyte infections lead to high costs and differentially affect certain groups. Previous population studies have been limited in size, duration, and representativeness.
Both trichoblastoma and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of the skin are characterized morphologically by the proliferation of basaloid cells; however, BCCs are clinically associated with a more aggressive behavior. An accurate diagnosis of these lesions is essential for effective, timely treatment and appropriate therapeutic decisions.
Malignant melanoma incidence has increased worldwide in recent decades. Cancer registry-derived epidemiologic data on malignant melanoma in Italy are available only in some northern regions of the country.
Infective dermatitis (ID) is a rare dermatologic condition of childhood that has been linked to human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1).
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease caused by protozoa of the genus Leishmania. Depending on the parasite species and host response, the disease presents itself in different clinical forms. The cutaneous form of the disease is most common in the Old World. Pentavalent antimonials in the form of an injection represent the most widely used therapy for all clinical forms of the disease. As a result of reports on the development of resistance from various parts of the world, we thought it pertinent to determine its response in our region.
Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) is rare in the treatment of solid tumors, but it may occur in myelolymphoproliferative diseases.
Unilateral movement disorders and contralateral neuroimaging abnormalities of the striatum have been sporadically reported as a rare syndrome associated with diabetes mellitus. Despite characteristic imaging findings and clinical manifestations, the mechanism underlying this syndrome is still unclear.
Global cardiac function is commonly assessed quantitatively by post processing tools that calculate global EF. Currently, regional cardiac function is assessed by subjective visual analysis of wall motion, which can have significant interobserver variability. CIM is a tool that may reduce variability by generating a semi-automated 3-dimensional heart model to calculate quantitative global and regional EF.
Ready-to-eat breakfast cereals (RTE-BC) are eaten more and more frequently by both adults and adolescents, but their nutritional quality is far from satisfactory: they often contained too much sugars and lead to a high glycemic index (GI) which generally contributes to a more rapid return of the feeling of hunger favouring nibbling in the morning.
Associations between obesity and poor iron status have been described in children and adults. Proposed mechanisms for this association implicate a physiologic etiology, suggesting body fat accretion may progressively degrade iron status. However, the relationship between iron status and body composition in non-obese adults remains unclear.
The 2005 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee (DGAC) recognized calcium, potassium and magnesium, all found in high levels in dairy foods, among the shortfall nutrients in both children and adults' diets.
Researchers have considered infant formula consumption a potential risk factor for enamel fluorosis in the U.S. population. The authors conducted a systematic review of controlled studies regarding the risk of developing enamel fluorosis associated with use of infant formula.
The authors assessed the association between enamel fluorosis and dental caries to determine if there is any beneficial effect of enamel fluorosis in U.S. schoolchildren.
The term "osteonecrosis of the jaw" (ONJ) is used almost synonymously with the term "bisphosphonate-associated ONJ." However, necrosis of the jawbones leading to exposure of bone is associated with other factors.
The durability of restorations bonded with one-step self-etching (OSSE) adhesive systems is inferior compared with that of restorations bonded with conventional adhesives. The authors conducted an 18-month randomized clinical study to evaluate the clinical performance of two OSSE systems in noncarious cervical lesions applied as recommended or with an extra layer of hydrophobic adhesive layer after 18 months of clinical service.
The authors investigate the relationship of preventive dental treatment to subsequent receipt of comprehensive treatment among Medicaid-enrolled children.
Red hair color is caused by variants of the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) gene. People with naturally red hair are resistant to subcutaneous local anesthetics and, therefore, may experience increased anxiety regarding dental care. The authors tested the hypothesis that having natural red hair color, a MC1R gene variant or both could predict a patient's experiencing dental care-related anxiety and dental care avoidance.
Exposure to acidic foods and beverages is thought to increase the risk of developing dental erosion. The authors hypothesized that the erosion potential of sour candies was greater than the erosion potential of original-flavor versions of the candies.
Local anesthetic administered directly to the operative site by slow infusion has become a popular supplementary pain management strategy following rotator cuff surgery, but it is expensive and there is little conclusive evidence that it provides additional benefits. The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness and safety of ropivacaine infusion following arthroscopic or mini-incision rotator cuff surgery.
Optimal surgical management of unstable distal radial fractures is controversial, and evidence from rigorous comparative trials is rare. We compared the functional outcomes of treatment of unstable distal radial fractures with external fixation, a volar plate, or a radial column plate.
Uncemented tibial components of total knee replacements have lower survival rates than cemented components. Radiostereometric analysis is a highly accurate, effective tool for investigating new implant designs. The purpose of this study was to compare an uncemented Trabecular Metal tibial component with a conventional cemented stemmed tibial component of the same design.
Several studies have described equivalent performance on radiostereometric analysis at two years for metal-backed compared with all-polyethylene stemmed tibial implants. The purpose of this study was to determine the ten-year survivorship results of these two designs from a large randomized controlled trial.
To our knowledge, there has been no prospective study on the results of arthroscopic repair of superior labrum-biceps anchor complex (SLAP) tears with use of modern techniques. The purpose of the present study was to prospectively evaluate the minimum two-year results for patients with type-II SLAP tears that were treated with arthroscopic suture anchor fixation.
Recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (rhBMP-2) on an absorbable collagen sponge has been shown to be a safe and effective replacement for iliac crest bone graft when used with a threaded fusion device in anterior lumbar interbody arthrodesis. Use of rhBMP-2 on an absorbable collagen sponge in posterolateral lumbar arthrodesis requires the addition of a bulking agent to provide resistance against compression and to serve as an osteoconductive scaffold for new bone formation.
Hard-on-hard bearings offer the potential to improve the survivorship of total hip arthroplasty implants. However, the specific indications for the use of these advanced technologies remain controversial. The purpose of this study was to characterize the epidemiology of bearing surface utilization in total hip arthroplasty in the United States with respect to patient, hospital, geographic, and payer characteristics.
As the prevalence of diabetes mellitus in people over the age of sixty years is expected to increase, the number of diabetic patients who undergo total hip and knee arthroplasty should be expected to increase accordingly. In general, patients with diabetes are at increased risk for adverse events following arthroplasty. The goal of the present study was to determine whether the quality of preoperative glycemic control affected the prevalence of in-hospital peri-operative complications following lower extremity total joint arthroplasty.
A saddle-horn injury of the pelvis occurs when a horse rider is thrown into the air and then falls back, with the perineum coming into contact with the saddle or saddle horn. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the characteristics and clinical outcomes, including sexual dysfunction, of this injury.
It is unknown whether postoperative incomplete reduction of the sesamoids is a risk factor for the recurrence of hallux valgus. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the relationship between the postoperative relative sesamoid position and the recurrence of hallux valgus.
Allograft-prosthetic composite reconstruction of the proximal part of the tibia is one option following resection of a skeletal tumor. Previous studies with use of this technique have found a high prevalence of complications, including fracture, infection, extensor mechanism insufficiency, and loosening. To address some of these problems, we adopted certain measures, including muscle flap coverage, meticulous tendon reconstruction, rigid implant fixation, and careful rehabilitation. The goal of the present study was to evaluate the functional outcome and complications in patients undergoing allograft-prosthetic composite reconstruction of the proximal part of the tibia.
The vertical expandable prosthetic titanium rib (VEPTR) device is used in the treatment of thoracic insufficiency syndrome and certain types of early-onset spinal deformity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the risk of neurologic injury during surgical procedures involving use of the VEPTR and to determine the efficacy of intraoperative spinal cord neuromonitoring.
Third-body wear can adversely affect the outcome of total hip arthroplasty by causing increased polyethylene wear, osteolysis, and component loosening. We hypothesized that there would be greater generation and migration of metal debris to the bearing surfaces in hips in which cobalt-chromium cables were used to reattach the osteotomized greater trochanter when compared with hips in which stainless steel wires were used.
Distraction-resisting forces that are generated during distraction osteogenesis can be responsible for complications, including a lag effect on fibular distraction leading to a tibiofibular distraction difference, tibial axial deviation, and distraction at the proximal and distal tibiofibular joints. We investigated the nature of distraction-resisting forces by studying their correlation with these parameters.
Autologous osteochondral transplantation is accepted as one of the major treatment options for cartilage defects of the talus. One disadvantage of this technique is the need to harvest a donor graft from a normal knee. The potentially detrimental effect of graft harvest on knee function remains unclear.
Optimal surgical management of three and four-part proximal humeral fractures in osteoporotic patients is controversial, with many advocating prosthetic replacement of the humeral head. Fixed-angle locked plates that maintain angular stability under load have been proposed as an alternative to hemiarthroplasty for the treatment of some osteoporotic fracture types.
Intraspinal anomalies are common in patients with congenital scoliosis and are a known risk factor for neurological complications. Smaller but normal-appearing spinal cords have not been described in association with congenital scoliosis, nor have they been considered to be an anomaly with a similar neurological risk. We previously reported on small spinal cords associated with Klippel-Feil syndrome. We hypothesized that patients with congenital thoracic scoliosis would similarly have smaller spinal cords as compared with normal controls, with a potentially increased risk for myelopathy.
The United States Preventive Services Task Force recently determined that they could not recommend any screening strategies for developmental dysplasia of the hip. Disparate findings in the literature and treatment-related problems have led to confusion about whether or not to screen for this disorder. The purpose of the present study was to determine, with use of expected-value decision analysis, which of the following three strategies leads to the best chance of having a non-arthritic hip by the age of sixty years: (1) no screening for developmental dysplasia of the hip, (2) universal screening of newborns with both physical examination and ultrasonography, or (3) universal screening with physical examination but only selective use of ultrasonography for neonates considered to be at high risk.
Hip fracture may result in an asymmetrical lower-limb strength deficit. The deficit may be related to the trauma, surgical treatment, pain, or disuse of the fractured limb. However, disease and injury burden or musculoskeletal pain in the other limb may reduce muscle strength on that side, reducing the asymmetrical deficit. The aim of our study was to explore the asymmetrical strength deficit and to determine the potential underlying factors in patients from six months to seven years after a hip fracture.
The criteria and timing for nerve surgery in infants with obstetric brachial plexopathy remain controversial. Our aim was to develop a new method for early prognostic assessment to assist this decision process.
Insertion of a radial head implant that results in radial overlengthening has been associated with altered elbow kinematics, increased radiocapitellar joint forces, capitellar erosions, early-onset arthritis, and loss of elbow flexion. The purpose of this study was to identify clinical and radiographic features that may be used to diagnose overlengthening of the radius intraoperatively and on postoperative radiographs.
Previous reports have compared the expected financial return of a medical education with those expected in other professions. However, we know of no published report estimating the financial return of orthopaedic training. The purpose of this study was to estimate the financial incentives that may influence the decision to invest an additional year of training in each of the major orthopaedic fellowships.
Pulmonary colonization by Aspergillus fumigatus in chronic lung disease is associated with progressive decline in lung function even in the absence of specific allergic response. We hypothesized that A. fumigatus contributes to this decline by inducing pulmonary mast cell degranulation even in the absence of antigen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE). Therefore, we investigated whether A. fumigatus can induce mast cell degranulation independently of IgE.
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) infection is endemic among adult populations in Africa. A prevailing view is that childhood transmission is primarily responsible for the high seroprevalence of KSHV among adults that is observed throughout the continent. However, few studies have directly examined children, particularly in locations where KS is not commonly endemic.
Recombinant forms of Neisseria meningitidis human factor H binding protein (fHBP) are undergoing clinical trials in candidate vaccines against invasive meningococcal serogroup B disease. We report an extensive survey and phylogenetic analysis of the diversity of fhbp genes and predicted protein sequences in invasive clinical isolates obtained in the period 2000-2006.
We examined the effect of male circumcision on the acquisition of 3 nonulcerative sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Rotavirus infections cause approximately 122,000 deaths among Indian children annually.
The variable antigen P. falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein-1 (PfEMP1) is a major virulence factor in malaria. A large number of var genes encode PfEMP1, and we hypothesized that a restricted PfEMP1 repertoire determines clinical disease presentation. We conducted a case-control study in Papua New Guinea and analyzed transcribed var genes in naturally infected children.
The administration of parenteral nutrition, including lipid emulsion (LE), to patients via medical catheters is an unexplained risk factor for the development of candidemia. Germination and biofilm formation are recognized virulence determinants of Candida albicans. No studies have addressed the effect of LE on candidal biofilm production. In this study, we investigated the effect of LE on candidal germination and its ability to form biofilm on medical catheter material.
Although it has been recognized that Mycobacterium tuberculosis contains large amounts of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) ligands, their direct effects on CD4(+) T cells and the clinical implications have not been determined.
Interpreting human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) genotypic drug-resistance test results is challenging for clinicians treating HIV-1-infected patients. Multiple drug-resistance interpretation algorithms have been developed, but their predictive value has rarely been evaluated using contemporary clinical data sets.
Although optimization of the fluoroquinolone dosage increases the efficacy of this class of drugs against bacterial infections, its impact on the emergence of resistance in commensal bacteria is unknown.
We previously reported that the RTS,S/AS02A vaccine had an acceptable safety profile, was immunogenic, and demonstrated efficacy against Plasmodium falciparum malaria disease for 21 months.
To further increase the efficacy of malaria vaccine RTS,S/AS02A, we tested the RTS,S antigen formulated using the AS01B Adjuvant System (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals).
CS after AMI continues to pose formidable therapeutic challenges in elderly patients.
Contrast-induced nephropathy is a growing concern in current percutaneous interventions with increasing lesion complexity and patient comorbidity. To address this clinical problem, a novel method of endovascular detection and automatic removal of contrast has been developed, and is comprised of a catheter-based system with a reflectance-type optical sensor.
Left main trifurcating coronary artery disease (LMTCAD) is a complex and challenging anatomy to treat percutaneously. We report on the immediate- and mid-term outcomes of 52 consecutive patients with LMTCAD treated with the Taxus(R) paclitaxel- eluting stent (PES) (Boston Scientific Corp., Natick, Mass.) in our center over a period of 2 years.
Elderly patients constitute a fast-growing portion of cardiovascular patients, however, they are not adequately represented in clinical trials. Moreover, few data comparing different type of DES in elderly patients are available.
Mutations in the leucine-rich-repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene have been identified in families with autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (ADPD), the most common of which is the p.G2019S substitution that has been found at varying frequencies worldwide. Because of the size of the LRRK2 gene, few studies have analysed the entire gene in large series of ADPD families.
Telomere length is a predictor for a number of common age related diseases and is a heritable trait.
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a prominent finding in the setting of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC).
Recent studies have identified chromosomal regions linked to variation in high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), apolipoprotein A-1 (apo A-1) and triglyceride (TG), although results have been inconsistent and previous studies of American Indian populations are limited.
FOXL2 encodes a forkhead transcription factor whose mutations are responsible for the blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome (BPES), involving craniofacial/palpebral abnormalities often associated with premature ovarian failure (POF).
Deletion of the complement factor H related 1 (CFHR1) gene is a consequence of non-allelic homologous recombination and has been reported to be more frequent in atypical haemolytic uraemic syndrome (aHUS) patients than in the normal population. Therefore, it is considered a susceptibility factor for the disease. aHUS is associated with hereditary or acquired abnormalities that lead to uncontrolled alternative pathway complement activation. We tested the CFHR1 deletion for association with aHUS in a population of French aHUS cases and controls. Furthermore, we examined the effect of the deletion in the context of known aHUS risk factors.
Mutations in the surfactant protein C gene (SFTPC) have been recently associated with the development of diffuse lung disease, particularly sporadic and familial interstitial lung disease (ILD).
The recognition of the 17q21.31 microdeletion syndrome has been facilitated by high resolution microarray technology. Recent clinical delineation of this condition emphasises a typical facial appearance, cardiac and renal defects, and speech delay in addition to intellectual disability, hypotonia and seizures.
Huntington's disease is caused by expansion of a polyglutamine tract found in the amino-terminal of the ubiquitously expressed protein huntingtin. Well studied in its mutant form, huntingtin has a wide variety of normal functions, loss of which may also contribute to disease progression. Widespread transcriptional dysfunction occurs in brains of Huntington's disease patients and in transgenic mouse and cell models of Huntington's disease.
In the public cord blood (CB) banks, only safe CB units with adequate cell doses are processed and stored. Complete blood count (CBC) of CB is crucial for estimating total nucleated cells (TNC) and screening suitable CB units without hematologic abnormalities. We analyzed CBC parameters of the donated CB from healthy Korean neonates to establish CBC reference values.
Eosinophilia may be associated with various primary and reactive conditions. The incidence and the causes of eosinophilia might have been changed according to the changes in the incidence of diseases such as cancer, chronic degenerative diseases, etc. We have conducted a retrospective study to investigate the incidence and causes of eosinophilia.
Since metallo-beta-lactamase (MBL)-producing isolates can hydrolyze carbapenem and also easily transfer the resistance genes to other bacteria, a rapid and accurate detection of MBL has become very important. We evaluated the utility of Mueller Hinton agar (MHA) biplate containing dipicolinic acid (DPA) as a screening method to detect IMP-1 and VIM-2 type MBL-producing isolates.
With the emergence of antimicrobial resistance among Streptococcus pneumoniae, a more accurate and automated antimicrobial susceptibility testing method is essential. We evaluated the BD Phoenix Automated Microbiology System (Becton Dickinson Diagnostic Systems, USA) SMIC/ID-2 panel for antimicrobial susceptibility testing of S. pneumoniae.
This study was performed to investigate the prevalence of qnr genes in clinical isolates of Escherichia coli from Korea that produce extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs).
We investigated hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection cases, who were HBsAg negative by radioimmunoassay (RIA) and HBV DNA positive for their clinical characteristics, the S gene mutation of hepatitis B virus (HBV), and usefulness of other HBsAg immunoassay.
ABO genotyping is commonly used in cases of an ABO discrepancy between cell typing and serum typing, as well as in forensic practice for personal identification and paternity testing. We evaluated ABO genotyping via multiplex allele-specific PCR (ASPCR) amplification using whole blood samples without DNA purification.
Real-time PCR for quantification of JAK2 V617F has recently been introduced and used to evaluate the importance of mutant allele burden in both diagnosis and disease progression in myeloproliferative diseases (MPDs). We evaluated the usefulness of JAK2 MutaScreen kit that uses a real-time semiquantitative PCR method and has been designed to screen JAK2 V617F mutant allele burden.
Circulating cell-free nucleic acids are known to be a noninvasive diagnostic tool for cancer detection. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) B1, a nuclear core complex, is overexpressed in early stage lung cancer. We intended to evaluate the usefulness of plasma hnRNP B1 mRNA in differentiating non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) from other benign lung diseases, especially pulmonary tuberculosis, which is highly prevalent in Korea and often difficult to distinguish from lung cancer.
Korean national cancer screening program selected fecal occult blood test (FOBT) as a primary screening method of colorectal carcinoma in adult &gt; or =50 yr old irrespective of symptom. Notice to pre-analytical errors is especially important for the FOBT because examinees collect and submit their specimens to laboratories by themselves. We examined the influences of the fecal storage temperatures, durations and with or without buffer on the FOBT results.
The standard surgical approach to treat primary (pHPT) and secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT) used to be a cervicotomy with exploration of all four parathyroid glands. This access has been challenged recently by the introduction of minimally invasive techniques in order to achieve superior cosmesic results and to reduce theatre time. We analyzed the advantages and morbidities of these surgical aproaches.
Eclectic test combinations are usually applied for diagnosing (Central) Auditory Processing Disorders (C)APD in school-aged children.
The introduction of non-invasive ventilation outside the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is an increasing phenomenon, motivated by the shortage of intensive care beds and growing confidence with the technique. However, although general ward nurses are responsible for carrying out the daily management of the treatment and the extra monitoring it requires, their perspective on non-invasive ventilation (NIV) has never before been studied, and as a result their training is often neglected.
Idiopathic membranous nephropathy, a common form of the nephrotic syndrome, is an antibody-mediated autoimmune glomerular disease. Serologic diagnosis has been elusive because the target antigen is unknown.
It is unknown whether the rate of survival after in-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is improving and which characteristics of patients and hospitals predict survival.
Fast and accurate staging is essential for choosing treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The purpose of this randomized study was to evaluate the clinical effect of combined positron-emission tomography and computed tomography (PET-CT) on preoperative staging of NSCLC.
Nephropathy and retinopathy remain important complications of type 1 diabetes. It is unclear whether their progression is slowed by early administration of drugs that block the renin-angiotensin system.
It is not known what effect the increased use of prescription drugs by enrollees in Medicare Part D has had on spending for other medical care.
Dietary carotenoids have attracted a great deal of attention due to their potential clinical relevance in conditions such as age-related maculopathy, osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. Surgical procedures have become the primary treatment of severe obesity, although nutrient deficiencies are common and long-term metabolic sequelae remain unknown. Thus, our aim was to assess the carotenoid status in serum of subjects after obesity surgery.
Human obesity is associated with increased serum phenylalanine concentration, which is probably caused by liver dysfunction related to liver steatosis. This study examines whether improvements of liver function after bariatric surgery is associated with a decrease of serum phenylalanine concentration caused by an increase of phenylalanine metabolism.
Patients undergoing bariatric surgery with a gastric bypass lose about 66% of excess weight. Although this procedure induces weight loss, it is unknown whether it leads to protein malnutrition, which is studied here.
Sleeve gastrectomy is thought to decrease the appetite and body weight of morbid obesity patients in the clinic. The purpose is to investigate the effect of sleeve gastrectomy on preventing steatohepatitis in morbid obesity rats.
Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) surgery is known to have a significant effect on obesity-related comorbidities such as hypertension curing it in some (50-70%) while improving control in others. Our aim was to observe the changes in blood pressure (BP) in a cohort of 100 patients followed prospectively for 1 year after LRYGB.
Morbid obesity is a chronic inflammatory condition due to the production of several cytokines from the adipose tissue. However, what happens with some of these parameters the first days after surgery is unknown. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to determine, through a prospective and descriptive study, the behavior of the C-reactive protein (CRP), the white blood cell count, and the body temperature prior to a gastric bypass and for 5 days afterwards.
Revisional surgery is required in a significant number of patients because of failure to lose weight, loss of quality of life, weight regain, or complications of the previous procedure. It has traditionally been associated with higher complication rates, and there appears to be no standardized surgical approach to revisional surgery. The aim of the study was to review the revisional procedures performed at St George Private Hospital and analyze the outcomes of the different types of revisional surgery.
The types and sources of lipid deposition in the liver of most patients with morbid obesity, as well as the effects of bariatric surgery, are discussed.
Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy has gained popularity as another tool available to weight loss surgeons, with published excess weight loss results similar or superior to laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding. The gastrectomy specimen consists of a hollow "bag" of fundus, which is typically extracted through an enlarged port site. Extraction can be a challenging and time-consuming portion of the operation.
Morbid obesity defined as BMI &gt; 40 is a growing problem. It is primarily treated with diet, lifestyle changes, and medicine. However, at present, surgery remains the only effective option for the management.
Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is gaining popularity as a "per se" bariatric procedure due to its effectiveness on weight loss and comorbidity resolution. The most feared and life-threatening complication after LSG is the staple line leak and its management is still a debated issue. Aim of this paper is to analyze the incidence of leak and the treatment solutions adopted in a consecutive series of 200 LSG.
Clinical experience suggests that some adults who undergo bariatric surgery have children who are obese. Childhood obesity is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in later life. This study examined the prevalence of obesity among children and grandchildren (&lt; or =12 years of age) of adult bariatric surgery patients.
Although Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGBP) is a highly effective treatment for clinically severe obesity, not all patients achieve desirable weight loss and maintenance. There is some evidence that weight loss can induce a disproportionate reduction in resting metabolic rate (RMR). This reduction in RMR can be related to fat-free mass (FFM) loss, as FFM is the greatest responsible for variations in energy expenditure at rest. Abnormally low basal metabolic rate may predispose surgical patients to weight regain.
In patients undergoing gastric bypass, massive weight loss and impairment of calcium intake and absorption in the duodenum and proximal jejunum may increase the risk of bone mass loss and fractures. However, few data are available regarding the impact of this surgery on the skeleton. The aim of our study was to examine the skeletal changes in a cohort of morbidly obese Caucasian women during the first year after gastric bypass and to analyse the factors implicated in the development of bone loss.
Since January 1st, 2005, the current situation for bariatric surgery has been examined by means of a voluntary quality assurance study in Germany with a multicenter design in which 38 hospitals and surgical departments participated. The data are registered in cooperation with the Institute of Quality Assurance in Surgery at the Otto-von-Guericke University of Magdeburg (Germany).
Laparoscopic adjustable gastric bands (LAGB) are a safe and effective treatment for obesity. Conflicting data exist concerning their effect on the esophagus, gastroesophageal junction, and mechanism of action. These patients will increasingly require accurate assessment of their esophageal function.
Obesity has become a global epidemic and bariatric surgery is one of the therapeutic tools to deal with it. Postoperative complications can occur, such as staple line dehiscence and anastomotic leaks, leading to increased patient mortality. The diagnosis of these complications is frequently difficult. The objective of the present study was to determine whether peritoneal and systemic cytokines could early detect those complications.
Inflammatory status underlying obesity seems to be implicated in several aspects of metabolic syndrome.
Previous studies show that slower habituation to taste stimuli is associated with reduced rates of satiation and greater energy intake. This study compared rates of salivary habituation to gustatory presentations of lemon juice in 34 severely obese bariatric surgery candidates [48.8 +/- 7.9 years, 85% female, body mass index (BMI) = 47.4 +/- 7.5 kg/m(2)] and 18 normal-weight controls (48.4 +/- 9.5 years, 88.9% female, BMI = 22.7 +/- 1.2 kg/m(2)).
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with increased vascular risk. Some studies suggested that considering markers of CKD might improve the predictive accuracy of the Framingham risk equation.
Postoperative regional anesthesia hastens recovery and reduces the length of hospital stay of orthopedic surgical patients. This study was designed to assess the impact of pre-incisional continuous femoral block on postoperative conditions (POC) of tibial osteotomy and total knee arthroplasty patients.
Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is an important cause of severe pulmonary hypertension (PH). D-dimer, a degradation product of fibrin, has been used as a marker for various diseases. In patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension there is evidence to suggest that D-dimer levels are associated with disease severity; however, data regarding D-dimer in patients with CTEPH are lacking.
Optic nerve regeneration has previously been achieved by injuring the lens, which results in the release of lentogenic factors. However, these lentogenic factors are still unknown.
The fundamental role of the light receptor rhodopsin in visual function and photoreceptor cell development has been widely studied. Proper trafficking of rhodopsin to the photoreceptor membrane is of great importance. In human, mutations in rhodopsin involving its intracellular mislocalization, are the most frequent cause of autosomal dominant Retinitis Pigmentosa, a degenerative retinal pathology characterized by progressive blindness. Drosophila is widely used as an animal model in visual and retinal degeneration research. So far, little is known about the requirements for proper rhodopsin targeting in Drosophila.
Previous research has shown that individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) develop visuospatial difficulties that affect their ability to mentally rotate objects. Surprisingly, the existing literature has generally ignored the impact of this mental rotation deficit on the ability of AD patients to recognize faces from different angles. Instead, the devastating loss of the ability to recognize friends and family members in AD has primarily been attributed to memory loss and agnosia in later stages of the disorder. The impact of AD on areas of the brain important for mental rotation should not be overlooked by face processing investigations -- even in early stages of the disorder.
The family of RecQ DNA helicases plays an important role in the maintenance of genomic integrity. Mutations in three of the five known RecQ family members in humans, BLM, WRN and RecQ4, lead to disorders that are characterized by predisposition to cancer and premature aging.
Insights into how the Frizzled/LRP6 receptor complex receives, transduces and terminates Wnt signals will enhance our understanding of the control of the Wnt/ss-catenin pathway.
Genes involved in the TGF-beta signaling pathway are often altered in several types of cancers. The TGF-beta-resistant human colon cancer cell line HT-29 has inactivated TbetaRII and deficient expression of RUNX3 and Smad4, which are involved in the TGF-beta signaling pathway.
Exposure of the spinal cord in myelomeningocele (MM) throughout gestation increases spinal injury. Astrocyte activation evidenced by glial fibrillary acidic proteins (GFAP) indicates the extent of injury. Corticosteroids modulate GFAP synthesis, but their effect in MM is unclear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the GFAP expression in a fetal rat model of dysraphism and the effect of corticosteroid treatment on this marker and on clinical neurological disabilities.
Health risk behaviours such as smoking and binge drinking track from adolescence to adulthood. Medicine use is associated with smoking and binge drinking among adolescents. Whether medicine-use behaviour tracks from adolescence to adulthood is unknown.
There is evidence that the utilization of antidepressant medications (ADM) may vary between different ethnic groups in the United States population.
Drug-induced photosensitivity is difficult to predict and remains a challenge for both the dermatological clinical practice and pharmacovigilance.
It has been claimed that at specific wavelengths and energy densities, laser irradiation is a novel and useful tool for the treatment of peripheral and central nervous system injuries and disorders.
Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has recently been used to improve the viability of ischemic random skin flaps in rats.
Surface roughness enhances the micromechanical interlocking of luting agents to ceramic surfaces. However, the most appropriate surface treatment for Y-TZP ceramics has yet to be determined.
LLLT has been used in parturient patients for postpartum mastitis and nipple soreness. However, previous studies have revealed hormonal and physiological effects of LLLT on the lactation status.
Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) is generally applied by a single probe.
Dental caries remains the most prevalent disease during childhood and adolescence. Preventive modalities include the use of fluoride, reduction of dietary cariogenic refined carbohydrates, plaque removal and oral hygiene techniques, and antimicrobial prescriptions. A relatively simple and noninvasive caries preventive regimen is treating tooth enamel with laser irradiation, either alone or in combination with topical fluoride treatment, resulting in reduced enamel solubility and dissolution rates. Due to their high cost, high-powered lasers are still not widely employed in private practice in developing countries. Thus, low-power red and near-infrared lasers appear to be an appealing alternative.
The photosensitizer accumulates in tumor tissue during PDT, and generates intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), resulting in tumor cell death.
Protection of their tips may influence LF measurements. To date there are no studies evaluating the influence of this protection on the performance of the LFpen on permanent teeth, or comparing it to the original LF device.
The use of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) and polarized polychromatic non-coherent light as supplements to an exercise program has been recommended for the management of lateral elbow tendinopathy (LET).
Laser welding is a common technique that has long been used in dental technician laboratories. It has many advantages over conventional techniques: it may be applied directly to master casts, and it avoids damage to the acrylic or ceramic portions close to the welded area. In addition, it may be applied on different types of metallic alloys, and it may provide a stronger attachment than other more traditional techniques. The cost, size, and limited flexibility of laser transmission systems using fixed lenses have restricted their use to dental technician laboratories.
Recently there has been increased interest in the propagation of polarized light in randomly scattering media such as biological tissues, because of its potential applications in medicine.
Despite the growing recognition that the clinical symptom characteristics associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) persist into adulthood in a high proportion of subjects, little is known about the persistence of neurocognitive deficits in ADHD. The objective was twofold: (1) to conduct a meta-analysis of neuropsychological studies to characterize attentional performance in subjects with adult ADHD by examining differences in ADHD versus normal control subjects; and (2) to investigate whether these differences vary as a function of age and gender.
Previous studies have reported prefrontal cortex (PFC) pathophysiology in bipolar disorder.
Although several studies have examined brainstem volume in autism, results have been mixed and no investigation has specifically measured gray- and white-matter structures. The aim of this investigation was to assess gray- and white-matter volumes in children with autism.
Suicide tends to concentrate in disadvantaged neighborhoods, and neighborhood disadvantage is associated with many important risk factors for youth suicide. However, no study has directly investigated the link between neighborhood poverty and youth suicidal behaviors, while controlling for pre-existing vulnerabilities. The objective of this study was to determine whether living in a poor neighborhood is associated with suicidal thoughts and attempts in late adolescence over and above background vulnerabilities, and whether this association can be explained by late-adolescence psychosocial risks: depression, social support, negative life events (NLEs), delinquent activities, substance abuse and exposure to suicide. The potential moderating role of neighborhood poverty was also examined.
Calendar calculation is the ability to quickly name the day that a given date falls on. Previous research has suggested that savant calendar calculation is based on rote memory and the use of rule-based arithmetic skills. The objective of this study was to identify the cognitive processes that distinguish calendar calculation in savant individuals from healthy calendar calculators.
Mental capacity is now a core part of UK mental health law and clinicians will increasingly be expected to assess it. Because it is a legal concept there is a need to clarify associations with variables that clinicians are more familiar with, especially insight.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is being claimed as the 'signature' injury of the Iraq war, and is believed to be the cause of long-term symptomatic ill health (post-concussional syndrome; PCS) in an unknown proportion of military personnel.
Although mental disorders have been shown to predict subsequent substance disorders, it is not known whether substance disorders could be cost-effectively prevented by large-scale interventions aimed at prior mental disorders. Although experimental intervention is the only way to resolve this uncertainty, a logically prior question is whether the associations of mental disorders with subsequent substance disorders are strong enough to justify mounting such an intervention. We investigated this question in this study using simulations to estimate the number of substance disorders that might be prevented under several hypothetical intervention scenarios focused on mental disorders.
The impact of antidepressant drug treatment (ADT) on the risk of suicide is uncertain. The aim of this study was to determine in a real-life setting whether ADT is associated with an increased or a reduced risk of suicide compared to absence of ADT (no-ADT) in patients with depression.
Mood lability is a concept widely used. However, data on its prevalence and morbid associations are scarce. We sought to establish the occurrence and importance of mood lability in a large community sample of children and adolescents by testing a priori hypotheses.
There is growing evidence for the familiality of pediatric bipolar disorder (BPD) and its association with impairments on measures of processing speed, verbal learning and 'executive' functions. The current study investigated whether these neurocognitive impairments index the familial risk underlying the diagnosis.
The relationship between the Bali (Indonesia) bombings of October 2002 and suicide has not previously been investigated, despite anecdotal evidence of the economic and psychological consequences of these attacks.
Bipolar disorder and schizophrenia have both been associated with deficits in extra-dimensional set shifting (EDS). Deficits in reversal learning (RL) have also been shown in schizophrenia but not in bipolar disorder. This study sought to assess the specificity of these findings in a direct comparison of clinically stable patients with each disorder.
Because the diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in higher education settings is rapidly becoming a contentious issue, particularly among patients with high IQs, we sought to assess the validity of diagnosing ADHD in high-IQ adults and to further characterize the clinical features associated with their ADHD.
Impaired P300 auditory response has been reported in patients with psychotic bipolar disorder (BPD) and unaffected relatives of psychotic bipolar patients. Deficits in mismatch negativity (MMN), however, have not been observed in bipolar patients. To our knowledge, no family study of MMN in BPD has been reported. The current study combined the Maudsley twin and bipolar family samples using genetic model fitting analyses to: (1) assess the relationship between BPD and MMN, (2) substantiate the association between psychotic BPD and P300 variables, (3) verify the genetic overlap of BPD with P300 amplitude previously reported in the twin sample, and (4) examine the shared genetic influences between BPD and bilateral temporal scalp locations of P300 components.
This analysis aimed to show whether symptoms of either pole change in their persistence as individuals move through two decades, whether such changes differ by age grouping, and whether age of onset plays an independent role in symptom persistence.
Most current theories explaining theory of mind (ToM) rely on the concept of 'representation', as it is usually employed in cognitive science, and is thus affected by its epistemic shortcoming, namely its incapacity to use 'sub-signifier' level information. This shortcoming is responsible for the lack of specificity of ToM deficits, which are now found in very different syndromes, from schizophrenia to bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder, in spite of its original formulation being restricted to childhood autism.
Help-seeking young people often display depressive symptoms. In some patients, these symptoms may co-exist with clinically high-risk mental states for psychosis. The aim of this study was to determine differences in subjective experience and social perception in young depressed patients with and without psychosis risk.
Since traffic accidents are more common in developing countries than in developed countries, we aimed to investigate the association of several factors with the development and persistence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after traffic accidents.
Recent studies suggest that mood-disorder-related personality traits predict depressive mood changes (DMC) in nonclinical populations.
Information provided by patients with schizophrenia and their respective carers is used to study the descriptive psychopathology and neuropsychology of formal thought disorder (FTD).
The association between obesity and blood pressure is well documented and a series of obesity indices are used as risk factors or indicators of blood pressure and/or the presence of hypertension.
Fish consumption has been shown to be inversely associated with CHD, which may be due to n-3 fatty acids. The n-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA, are naturally found only in marine sources. Dietary intakes of methylmercury from certain fish have been hypothesized to increase the risk of CHD.
Despite recent advances in CT technology, metal orthopedic implants continue to cause significant artifacts on many CT exams, often obscuring diagnostic information. We performed this prospective study to evaluate the effectiveness of an experimental metal artifact reduction (MAR) image reconstruction program for CT.
CD8 T lymphocytes from chronically infected HIV-positive patients degenerate into a preapoptotic state and exhibit impaired functionality. Particularly in viremic patients, this was associated with an increased proportion of interleukin-7 receptor-alpha low-expressing (IL-7Ralpha(low)) effector-like CD8 T cells. As cytokine signaling through signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) is essential for cellular function, we hypothesized that activation of this pathway may be impaired in these cells.
Opportunities to practice live intubations are limited, so other methods of skill development must be researched. Some experts claim that exceptional performance simply reflects extended periods of intense training. This study evaluates whether daily intubation practice using standard airway mannequins increases the success rate of providers when intubating actual patients.
Over the last decade, nosocomial infections due to Acinetobacter baumannii have been described with an increasing trend towards multidrug resistance, mostly in intensive care units. The aim of the present study was to determine the clonal relatedness of clinical isolates and to elucidate the genetic basis of imipenem resistance.
The incidence of melanoma continues to rise in Australia. General practitioners treat the majority of skin cancers affecting Australians. In the past decade, there has been improved uptake of dermoscopy by GPs who realise its value in the assessment of pigmented and nonpigmented lesions.
Blistering of the skin can be due to a number of diverse aetiologies. Pattern and distribution of blisters can be helpful in diagnosis but usually biopsy is required for histopathology and immunofluoresence to make an accurate diagnosis.
Basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) are common, and are regularly diagnosed and managed by Australian general practitioners.
Dermatologic complaints are a common reason for presentation to a general practitioner. In some cases, one needs to determine if the complaint may be a manifestation of a more serious underlying systemic disease.
The use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for breast screening is increasing. Women may approach their general practitioner for advice on its role in breast screening and diagnosis.
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection has classically been associated with institutional health care settings such as hospitals and nursing homes.
We aimed to determine the feasibility of measuring resolution rates of bacterial skin infections in general practice.
Incidence of depression among Chinese people living in traditional Asian regions is low. Recent Chinese immigrants to Australia may be at greater risk of depression and anxiety because of issues related to integration into Australian society. General practitioners are often the first point of contact for people with anxiety and depression. Patients from a Chinese background may be reluctant to discuss their mental health problems with their GP.
General practitioners manage the majority of skin cancers in Australia. There are a range of training opportunities for, and certifications in, skin cancer management.
Multilocus Sequence Typing (MLST) is a frequently used typing method for the analysis of the clonal relationships among strains of several clinically relevant microbial species. MLST is based on the sequence of housekeeping genes that result in each strain having a distinct numerical allelic profile, which is abbreviated to a unique identifier: the sequence type (ST). The relatedness between two strains can then be inferred by the differences between allelic profiles. For a more comprehensive analysis of the possible patterns of evolutionary descent, a set of rules were proposed and implemented in the eBURST algorithm. These rules allow the division of a data set into several clusters of related strains, dubbed clonal complexes, by implementing a simple model of clonal expansion and diversification. Within each clonal complex, the rules identify which links between STs correspond to the most probable pattern of descent. However, the eBURST algorithm is not globally optimized, which can result in links, within the clonal complexes, that violate the rules proposed.
Searching for proteins that contain similar substructures is an important task in structural biology. The exact solution of most formulations of this problem, including a recently published method based on tableaux, is too slow for practical use in scanning a large database.
Tumor immune escape and angiogenesis contribute to tumor progression, and gangliosides and activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3 are implicated in these processes. As both are considered as novel therapeutic targets, we assessed the possible association of ganglioside GM3 expression and STAT3 activation with suppression of dendritic cell (DC) activation and angiogenesis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Severe hypertriglyceridaemia due to chylomicronemia may trigger an acute pancreatitis. However, the basic underlying mechanism is usually not well understood. We decided to analyze some proteins involved in the catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in patients with severe hypertriglyceridaemia.
Toll like receptors (TLR) play the central role in the recognition of pathogen associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). Mutations in the TLR1, TLR2 and TLR4 genes may change the ability to recognize PAMPs and cause altered responsiveness to the bacterial pathogens.
The subtelomeric regions of human chromosomes exhibit an extraordinary plasticity. To date, due to the high GC content and to the presence of telomeric repeats, the subtelomeric sequences are underrepresented in the genomic libraries and consequently their sequences are incomplete in the finished human genome sequence, and still much remains to be learned about subtelomere organization, evolution and function. Indeed, only in recent years, several studies have disclosed, within human subtelomeres, novel gene family members.
Traffic injuries can cause physical, psychological, and economical impairment, and affected individuals may also experience shortcomings in their post-accident care and treatment. In an earlier randomised controlled study of nursing intervention via telephone follow-up, self-ratings of health-related quality of life were generally higher in the intervention group than in the control group.
This trial registration number is: ISRCTN11746866.
Physicians frequently report negative attitudes about obesity which is thought to affect patient care. However, little is known about how attitudes toward treating obese patients are formed. We conducted a cross-sectional survey of physicians in order to better characterize their attitudes and explore the relationships among attitudes, perceived competency in obesity care, including report of weight loss in patients, and other key physician, training, and practice characteristics.
In order to attain a better understanding of the interactions between opportunist fungi and their hosts, we investigated the cytokine profile associated with the inflammatory response to Candida albicans infection in mice with solid Ehrlich tumors of different degrees.
Mitotic recombination is important for inactivating tumour suppressor genes by copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity (LOH). Although meiotic recombination maps are plentiful, little is known about mitotic recombination. The APC gene (chr5q21) is mutated in most colorectal tumours and its usual mode of LOH is mitotic recombination.
Astrocyte activation is a characteristic response to injury in the central nervous system, and can be either neurotoxic or neuroprotective, while the regulation of both roles remains elusive.
The stress response is a critical factor in the training of equine athletes; it is important for performance and for protection of the animal against physio-pathological disorders.In this study, the molecular mechanisms involved in the response to acute and strenuous exercise were investigated using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).
Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) often display symptoms from other diagnostic categories. Studies of clinical and psychosocial outcome in adult patients with ASDs without concomitant intellectual disability are few. The objective of this paper is to describe the clinical psychiatric presentation and important outcome measures of a large group of normal-intelligence adult patients with ASDs.
Smoking is one of the leading causes of premature death particularly in developing countries. The prevalence of smoking is high among the general male population in Bangladesh. Unfortunately smoking information including correlates of smoking in the cities especially in the urban slums is very scarce, although urbanization is rapid in Bangladesh and slums are growing quickly in its major cities. Therefore this study reported prevalences of cigarette and bidi smoking and their correlates separately by urban slums and non-slums in Bangladesh.
Herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) has been described to cause respiratory tract infections in critically ill patients or in individuals that are immunocompromised. It is a continuing matter of debate under which circumstances HSV-1 is a relevant pathogen for pneumonitis. While its role during critical illness has been investigated by prospective interventional studies, comparatively little systematic data is available on the role of HSV-1 for pneumonitis in outpatients with autoimmune disease under a maintenance regimen of immunosuppression.
The Clubfoot Assessment Protocol (CAP) was developed for follow-up of children treated for clubfoot. The objective of this study was to analyze reliability and validity of the six items used in the domain CAPMotion Quality using inexperienced assessors.
Feedback regulation plays crucial roles in the robust control and maintenance of many cellular systems. Negative feedbacks are found to underline both stable and unstable, often oscillatory, behaviours. We explore the dynamical characteristics of systems with single as well as coupled negative feedback loops using a combined approach of analytical and numerical techniques. Particularly, we emphasise how the loop's characterising factors (strength and cooperativity levels) affect system dynamics and how individual loops interact in the coupled-loop systems.
New mathematical models of complex biological structures and computer simulation software allow modelers to simulate and analyze biochemical systems in silico and form mathematical predictions. Due to this potential predictive ability, the use of these models and software has the possibility to compliment laboratory investigations and help refine, or even develop, new hypotheses. However, the existing mathematical modeling techniques and simulation tools are often difficult to use by laboratory biologists without training in high-level mathematics, limiting their use to trained modelers.
The use of prior knowledge to improve gene regulatory network modelling has often been proposed. In this article we present the first research on the massive incorporation of prior knowledge from literature for Bayesian network learning of gene networks. As the publication rate of scientific papers grows, updating online databases, which have been proposed as potential prior knowledge in past research, becomes increasingly challenging. The novelty of our approach lies in the use of gene-pair association scores that describe the overlap in the contexts in which the genes are mentioned, generated from a large database of scientific literature, harnessing the information contained in a huge number of documents into a simple, clear format.
The C++ source code is freely available under the GNU GPL license via http://mech.ctb.pku.edu.cn/MetaTISA/.
Rahnuma is available online at http://portal.stats.ox.ac.uk:8080/rahnuma/.
PESTAS is available at http://pestas.kribb.re.kr/.
A limitation of current methods used to declare significance in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) is that they do not provide clear information about the probability that GWAS findings are true of false. This lack of information increases the chance of false discoveries and may result in real effects being missed.
The codes are freely downloadable from the web site http://www.people.vcu.edu/~jbukszar.
Generation of structural models and recognition of homologous relationships for unannotated protein sequences are fundamental problems in bioinformatics. Improving the sensitivity and selectivity of methods designed for these two tasks therefore has downstream benefits for many other bioinformatics applications.
Synthetic biology is to engineer artificial biological systems to investigate natural biological phenomena and for a variety of applications. However, the development of synthetic gene networks is still difficult and most newly created gene networks are non-functioning due to uncertain initial conditions and disturbances of extra-cellular environments on the host cell. At present, how to design a robust synthetic gene network to work properly under these uncertain factors is the most important topic of synthetic biology.
http://www.ee.nthu.edu.tw/bschen/SyntheticBioDesign_supplement.pdf.
Importance of accurate automatic protein function prediction is ever increasing in the face of a large number of newly sequenced genomes and proteomics data that are awaiting biological interpretation. Conventional methods have focused on high sequence similarity-based annotation transfer which relies on the concept of homology. However, many cases have been reported that simple transfer of function from top hits of a homology search causes erroneous annotation. New methods are required to handle the sequence similarity in a more robust way to combine together signals from strongly and weakly similar proteins for effectively predicting function for unknown proteins with high reliability.
ESG web server is available for automated protein function prediction at http://dragon.bio.purdue.edu/ESG/.
Apollo is a Java application distributed under a free and open source license. Installers for Windows, Linux, Unix, Solaris and Mac OS X are available at http://apollo.berkeleybop.org, and the source code is available from the SourceForge CVS repository at http://gmod.cvs.sourceforge.net/gmod/apollo.
One of the first steps in metagenomic analysis is the assignment of reads/contigs obtained from various sequencing technologies to their correct taxonomic bins. Similarity-based binning methods assign a read to a taxon/clade, based on the pattern of significant BLAST hits generated against sequence databases. Existing methods, which use bit-score as the sole parameter to ascertain the significance of BLAST hits, have limited specificity and accuracy of binning. A new binning algorithm, called SOrt-ITEMS is introduced, which addresses these limitations. The method uses alignment parameters besides the bit score to first identify an appropriate taxonomic level where the read can be assigned. An orthology-based approach is subsequently used by the method for the final assignment.
SOrt-ITEMS software is available for download from: http://metagenomics.atc.tcs.com/binning/SOrt-ITEMS. No license is needed for academic and nonprofit use.
The continuing exponential accumulation of full genome data, including full diploid human genomes, creates new challenges not only for understanding genomic structure, function and evolution, but also for the storage, navigation and privacy of genomic data. Here, we develop data structures and algorithms for the efficient storage of genomic and other sequence data that may also facilitate querying and protecting the data.
Data are publicly available from GenBank, the HapMap web site, and the MITOMAP database. Supplementary materials with additional results, statistics, and software implementations are available from http://mammag.web.uci.edu/bin/view/Mitowiki/ProjectDNACompression.
The large, complex networks of interactions between proteins provide a lens through which one can examine the structure and function of biological systems. Previous analyses of these continually growing networks have primarily followed either of two approaches: large-scale statistical analysis of holistic network properties, or small-scale analysis of local topological features. Meanwhile, investigation of meso-scale network structure (above that of individual functional modules, while maintaining the significance of individual proteins) has been hindered by the computational complexity of structural search in networks. Examining protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks at the meso-scale may provide insights into the presence and form of relationships between individual protein complexes and functional modules.
The relationship between nucleosome positioning and gene regulation is fundamental yet complex. Previous studies on genomic nucleosome positions have revealed a correlation between nucleosome occupancy on promoters and gene expression levels. Many of these studies focused on individual nucleosomes, especially those proximal to transcription start sites. To study the collective effect of multiple nucleosomes on the gene expression, we developed a mathematical approach based on autocorrelation to relate genomic nucleosome organization to gene regulation.
There has been an increasing interest in expressing a survival phenotype (e.g. time to cancer recurrence or death) or its distribution in terms of a subset of the expression data of a subset of genes. Due to high dimensionality of gene expression data, however, there is a serious problem of collinearity in fitting a prediction model, e.g. Cox's proportional hazards model. To avoid the collinearity problem, several methods based on penalized Cox proportional hazards models have been proposed. However, those methods suffer from severe computational problems, such as slow or even failed convergence, because of high-dimensional matrix inversions required for model fitting. We propose to implement the penalized Cox regression with a lasso penalty via the gradient lasso algorithm that yields faster convergence to the global optimum than do other algorithms. Moreover the gradient lasso algorithm is guaranteed to converge to the optimum under mild regularity conditions. Hence, our gradient lasso algorithm can be a useful tool in developing a prediction model based on high-dimensional covariates including gene expression data.
R package glcoxph is available at http://datamining.dongguk.ac.kr/R/glcoxph.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments followed by array hybridization, or ChIP-chip, is a powerful approach for identifying transcription factor binding sites (TFBS) and has been widely used. Recently, massively parallel sequencing coupled with ChIP experiments (ChIP-seq) has been increasingly used as an alternative to ChIP-chip, offering cost-effective genome-wide coverage and resolution up to a single base pair. For many well-studied TFs, both ChIP-seq and ChIP-chip experiments have been applied and their data are publicly available. Previous analyses have revealed substantial technology-specific binding signals despite strong correlation between the two sets of results. Therefore, it is of interest to see whether the two data sources can be combined to enhance the detection of TFBS.
Source code for the software ChIPmeta is freely available for download at http://www.umich.edu/~hwchoi/HHMMsoftware.zip, implemented in C and supported on linux.
The enormous amount of short reads generated by the new DNA sequencing technologies call for the development of fast and accurate read alignment programs. A first generation of hash table-based methods has been developed, including MAQ, which is accurate, feature rich and fast enough to align short reads from a single individual. However, MAQ does not support gapped alignment for single-end reads, which makes it unsuitable for alignment of longer reads where indels may occur frequently. The speed of MAQ is also a concern when the alignment is scaled up to the resequencing of hundreds of individuals.
http://maq.sourceforge.net.
There is a significant ongoing research to identify the number and types of repetitive DNA sequences. As more genomes are sequenced, efficiency and scalability in computational tools become mandatory. Existing tools fail to find distant repeats because they cannot accommodate whole chromosomes, but segments. Also, a quantitative framework for repetitive elements inside a genome or across genomes is still missing.
The source code, results and visualization of some statistics are accessible from http://kapow.dc.uba.ar/patterns/.
The package is freely available from http://www.bioconductor.org/. A quick-start vignette is included with the package.
There is a growing interest in improving the cluster analysis of expression data by incorporating into it prior knowledge, such as the Gene Ontology (GO) annotations of genes, in order to improve the biological relevance of the clusters that are subjected to subsequent scrutiny. The structure of the GO is another source of background knowledge that can be exploited through the use of semantic similarity.
In a series of recent papers, Tess, a computer program based on the concept of hidden Markov random field, has been proposed to infer the number and locations of panmictic population units from the genotypes and spatial locations of these individuals. The method seems to be of broad appeal as it is conceptually much simpler than other competing methods and it has been reported by its authors to be fast and accurate. However, this methodology is not grounded in a formal statistical inference method and seems to rely to a large extent on arbitrary choices regarding the parameters used. The present article is an investigation of the accuracy of this method and an attempt to assess whether recent results reported on the basis of this method are genuine features of the genetic process or artefacts of the method.
The data analysed in the present article are available from http://folk.uio.no/gillesg/Bioinformatics-HMRF.
Recent research indicates a close connection of inflammation and cancer as presumed by Virchow in 1893. The growing understanding of cellular signalling and regulatory pathways reveals multiple links between inflammation and cancer. This study was designed to evaluate the influence of the anti-inflammatory drug dexamethasone and the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol on oxidative induced DNA damage, a major factor in the development of malignancies.
Infrared imaging measures spatial variations in the skin temperature aiming to determine pathological processes; hence possible use of this non-invasive analytical method in cancer detection is emerging.
Sialic acid, as a terminal saccharide residue on cell surface glycoconjugates, plays an important role in a variety of biological processes. However, the precise nature of the molecules in gastric cancers has not been unveiled nor documented to be of clinical relevance. Herein, we measured the expression of alpha 2, 3-linked sialic acid residues by using a specific lectin as well as the potential of invasion and metastasis of gastric cancer was analyzed.
The Murine double minute 2 (MDM2) gene encodes a negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor protein. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the MDM2 promoter (a T to G exchange at nucleotide 309) has been reported to produce accelerated tumor formation. The aim of this study was to investigate whether this functional SNP is associated with an enhanced risk of liver tumorigenesis in Moroccan patients.
Intraoral lesions clinically suspicious for cancer/precancer should be biopsied and diagnosed histopathologically. We evaluated whether the frequency of oral cancer (OC) cases diagnosed in Puerto Rico (PR) is disproportionately high relative to the frequency of persons with histopathologic diagnoses that would have appeared clinically suspicious for OC/precancer at biopsy.
This study focuses on age, race/ethnicity and regular cervical cancer screening of medically underserved Latina and non-Latina women enrolled in California's Cancer Detection Programs: Every Woman Counts (CDP: EWC).
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) P1 is a major phase II xenobiotic-metabolizing enzyme in the human lung. Our laboratory had previously identified nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the GSTP1 gene promoter, which were then grouped into three main haplotypes (Hap1, Hap2, and Hap3) based on statistical inference. Hap3 was found to display a high expression phenotype. The main objective of the current study was to test the association between GSTP1 promoter haplotypes with the risk of lung cancer after determining the promoter haplotypes experimentally through cloning and sequencing.
It is not known whether abnormalities of left ventricular diastolic function are influenced by the various cardiac geometric patterns in Nigerians with newly diagnosed systemic hypertension.
Cardiac disease is the most common cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease. It is assumed that the high rate of cardiovascular mortality is related to accelerated atherosclerosis. Patients with chronic renal insufficiency have an increased prevalence of coronary artery disease, silent myocardial ischaemia, complex ventricular arrhythmias, atrial fibrillation, left ventricular hypertrophy, annular mitral and aortic valve calcification, and enlargement of the left atrium, than patients with normal renal function. It is also well known that haemodialysis is associated with cardiovascular structural changes and rapid fluctuations in electrolyte levels. In this study, we sought to estimate left atrial size by means of echocardiography and to determine any correlations between different echocardiographic measurements in patients with end-stage renal disease.
Total mesorectal excision (TME) of the rectum has been advocated as the gold standard surgical treatment of middle and lower third rectal cancer. Laparoscopy has gained acceptance among surgeons in the treatment of colon malignancies, while scepticism exists about laparoscopic TME in terms of safety and its oncological adequacy.
Treatment of high-grade osteosarcoma remains a challenge. The prognostic significance of the pre-treatment serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level is currently controversial.
Previous studies have demonstrated that non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients have particular difficulty in producing verbs in a word generation situation. Two alternative explanations for this deficit have been proposed: the "motor" theory (verbs as action representawcttions) and the "grammatical" theory (verbs as lexical category). The aim of this study was to investigate the "motor" theory by exploring the neuronal substrates of action-related word production.
Modern societies depend on environmental sustainability and on new generations of individuals well-trained by environmental research and teaching institutions. In the past, significant contributions to the identification, assessment, and management of chemical stressors with legal consequences have been made.
Aberrant activation of oncogenes, such as Ras, likely contributes to the development of hepatocarcinoma (HCC).
Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of paediatric patients with osteosarcoma has not been documented longitudinally during treatment. Aims of this prospective study were to assess treatment effects on patients' HRQOL at diagnosis, during therapy and after completion of therapy, to assess sex- and age-related differences in HRQOL ratings and to assess differences between patients' and parents' reports.
XK469 is a novel topoisomerase II inhibitor structurally akin to several propionic acid derivatives, such as ibuprofen and diclofenac, which are metabolised by CYP2C9. We report eight subjects who experienced significant elevation of INR while receiving concomitant R(+)XK469 and warfarin. The aim of the study is to investigate whether R(+)XK469 interacts with S-warfarin by inhibition of CYP2C9.
Over the past decades, significant progress has been achieved in the cytotoxic treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC) by the use of fluoropyrimidines, irinotecan and oxaliplatin. However, as not all patients do respond to chemotherapy, there is a need for predictive and prognostic factors in order to optimise the treatment for individual patients. Although many potential molecular markers have been studied, none of these have been implemented in the standard of care for colorectal cancer patients.
The expression ''acquired brain injury'' (ABI) incorporates a range of etiologies including cerebrovascular accident, brain tumour and traumatic brain injury. ABI is a common cause of disability in the pediatric population, and dysarthria is a common and often persistent sequelae associated with ABI in children.
Echinoderms and chordates belong to the same monophyletic taxon, the Deuterostomia. In spite of significant differences in body plan organization, the two phyla may share more common traits than was thought previously. Of particular interest are the common features in the organization of the central nervous system. The present study employs two polyclonal antisera raised against bovine Reissner's substance (RS), a secretory product produced by glial cells of the subcomissural organ, to study RS-like immunoreactivity in the central nervous system of sea cucumbers.
Botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) injections are known to improve walking impairments and activity in spastic hemiparetic stroke patients presenting with a stiff-knee gait [Caty GD, Detrembleur C, Bleyenheuft C, Deltombe T, Lejeune TM. Effect of simultaneous botulinum toxin injections into several muscles on impairment, activity, participation, and quality of life among stroke patients presenting with a stiff knee gait. Stroke 2008;39(October (10)):2803-8]. The aim of the present study was to understand how the improvement of mechanical variables during gait is controlled by the central nervous system after BoNT-A injections. Therefore, we used Kinematic Segmental Coordination (KSC), i.e. the kinematic covariation law of elevation angles between lower limb segments, to assess their effect on gait control. As far as we know, this has never been studied before.
Hallux valgus is a common foot disorder often experienced with secondary callosities and metatarsalgia. Many factors including improper shoes might be responsible in the pathophysiology of the problem. Hallux valgus deformity has been shown to alter the biomechanics of the whole foot rather than affecting only the great toe. Due to changes in the biomechanical functioning of the first ray, other regions of the forefoot area have been shown to bear abnormal loads with increased vertical loading on medial, central and lateral forefoot regions. The purpose of this study was to investigate the pattern of forefoot plantar shear loading in hallux valgus patients and compare these results with those of control subjects.
Invasion and metastasis are the most strenuous problems in the management of breast cancer. These events require diverse proteolytic enzymes, among which MMP-2 and MMP-9 play a significant role in degradation of type IV collagen, the major component of the basement membrane. Therefore, the major objective of the study is to evaluate the clinical usefulness of MMP-2 and MMP-9 with respect to malignant tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis in breast cancer.
The highest incidence of uterine cervical cancer in India is reported in Chennai. The prevalence and oncopotency are to be considered for the development of vaccines and therapeutic agents.
The second leading cause of death due to cancer in Turkey is breast cancer, which accounts for 24% of female cancers.
Osteosarcomas (OS) of the jaws are uncommon lesions representing 6-8% of skeletal OS. We assessed the characteristics, demographics, prevalence clinical and histopathological findings and distribution of gnathic OS relative to non-gnathic OS in four major treatment centers.
While lens-sacrificing vitrectomy is the standard approach to manage Stage 5 retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), scleral buckling has been used to manage some cases of Stage 4. Lens-sparing vitrectomy was popularized by Maguire and Trese in selected cases of Stage 4 disease.
Diagnosis of amblyopia in preverbal strabismic patients is frequently made by binocular fixation preference (BFP) testing. The reports on reliability of BFP are equivocal. This study evaluated the reliability of BFP testing in patients with horizontal strabismus.
We present a series of patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) who attended an eye hospital in Sana, Yemen during 2004.
The aim of this study was to assess the outcomes of patients treated for peritoneal or ovarian psammocarcinoma (PSC).
This is the second report on the conservative treatment of endometrial carcinoma in a female patient younger than fifteen years. Case A, a 14-year-old teenager, presented with menorrhagia. An endometrial biopsy revealed grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma. The estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor were strongly positive in 60% and 90% of the tumor, respectively. Although she was administered medroxyprogesterone acetate for a month, it was not effective. She underwent standard surgery including a hysterectomy. She was thereafter free of disease 1 year after surgery. No estrogen receptor staining of the surgical specimen was observed, and 30% of the tumor was strongly positive for progesterone receptor. Direct DNA sequencing of exons 7 and 8 of PTEN and the K-ras codon 12 demonstrated the presence of no mutation. In addition, no dominant-negative p53 mutation was found by a yeast functional assay.
Hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) regulates the transcription of many genes involved in key aspects of cancer biology. The aim of our study was to explore the effects of HIF-1alpha on the biological characteristics of the uterine cervix cancer (UCC) cell line SiHa, such as proliferation, apoptosis, and migration under normoxia and hypoxia.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the main etiologic factor for cervical cancer (CC). To investigate the prevalence of HPV types in archival CC and its precursors collected form Tongliao area, which is located in the east of Inner Mongolian autonomous region, China, and compare the genotype distribution of HPV in cervical lesions between Han Chinese and Mongolian.
New end points are needed in future human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine efficacy studies that accurately predict disease progression.
The presence of disseminated tumor cells (DTC) in the bone marrow (BM) of breast cancer patients is associated with poor prognosis. Several studies demonstrated that tumor cell dissemination may occur in gynecologic cancer and affect clinical outcome. The aim of our study was to evaluate the incidence of DTC and to assess their prognostic significance in patients with gynecologic malignancies.
To compare quality of life and bladder, intestinal, and sexual dysfunctions in 2 groups of patients undergoing different types of radical hysterectomies (RHs).
A modified posterior pelvic exenteration (MPE) might be needed to reach an optimal tumoral reduction. The issue of this study is to relate a multicentric experience of this kind of resection.
Forced exercise is associated with oxidative stress, and L-cysteine (L-cys) administration reduces free-radical production.
The mechanism of restenosis, especially at the SB ostium, has not been fully elucidated.
Thrombolysis remains an important, commonly used reperfusion therapy, yet failure to achieve complete reperfusion occurs relatively frequently. A number of recent trials have focused on the management of patients with thrombolytic failure, including the REACT (Rescue Angioplasty Versus Conservative Treatment or Repeat Thrombolysis) trial, which demonstrated a significant 6-month benefit favoring R-PCI. However, longer-term maintenance of benefit for R-PCI has not been demonstrated.
Recent studies have shown that monocytes in human peripheral blood are heterogeneous.
Electrocardiographic criteria used as risk predictors for TdP commonly rely on a prolonged QT interval but rarely consider abnormal T-U waves.
No prognostic data exist on the predictive value of CFR and (13)N-ammonia PET.
CHD is considered a risk factor for mortality after HT, yet this unique group of patients represents a spectrum of complexity.
Despite the universal presence of potentially arrhythmogenic left ventricular (LV) scarring, it is not clear why the majority of ICM patients never develop SMVT.
http://clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00599209.
It is important to develop innovative therapies for advanced stage cancers in addition to the conventional therapies including chemotherapy, radiation and surgery. Antigen-specific immunotherapy has emerged as a novel alternate therapy for advanced stage cancers, which may be employed in conjunction with conventional therapies.
High levels of Hepatoma Up-Regulated Protein (HURP) and Tousled-Like Kinase (TLK) transcripts are found in hepatocellular carcinoma. HURP overexpression induces anchorage-independent growth of 293-T cells and enhances a rough-eye phenotype resulting from tlk overexpression in Drosophila. In addition, both HURP and Mars, a Drosophila HURP sequence homologue, promote polymerization of mitotic spindles. Thus, the genetic interaction of mars with tlk might be required for accurate chromosome segregation.
The main objective was to identify variables that predict functional disability in chronic schizophrenia over time.
(ClinicalTrials.gov) Identifier NCT00854919.
Despite the recent U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of aripiprazole as the first antipsychotic to be used as an adjunct to antidepressant medications in the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), information on the current use of antipsychotics in the treatment of MDD has not been available.
Fragile X premutation conditions are associated with a significant degree of psychopathology and thus are of interest to the psychiatrist. Remarkable advances at the molecular level have enhanced our understanding of fragile X premutation disorders.
(ClinicalTrials.gov) Identifier: NCT00088634.
(ClinicalTrials.gov) Identifier: NCT00103415.
(ClinicalTrials.gov) Identifier: NCT00254202.
(Controlled-Trials.com) Identifier: ISRCTN72046462.
Although radiotherapy (RT) plays an important role in the management of patients with head and neck cancer (HNC), it is also associated with several undesired side effects such as radiation caries which is a common, yet serious, complication. To review the condition, the Pubmed database was searched using the keywords "radiotherapy," "radiation," "caries," "hyposalivation," "prevention" and "management". Only studies published in the English language were selected. Cross-referencing identified additionally relevant studies.
Stem cells have been isolated from the pulp tissue of both deciduous and permanent teeth as well as from the periodontal ligament. Dental pulp stem cells demonstrate the capacity to form a dentin pulp-like complex in immunocompromised mice. A tooth-like structure was successfully formed, using a heterogeneous mixture of dental enamel epithelium, pulp mesenchymal cells, and scaffolds.
A variety of therapeutic modalities are available to restore teeth with moderate coronal defects in the posterior region of the mouth. For patients who refuse complete crown restorations or when minimal tooth reduction is preferred, a FRC restoration can be a good alternative to conventional restorative techniques.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a lethal malignancy with high rate of metastasis and poor prognosis. There are no effective managements to block metastasis of HCC. Programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) is found to be a tumor transformation suppressor. Among investigations on effects of PDCD4, little is about the metastatic potentials of HCC cells. This study was to investigate the role of PDCD4 on metastatic potential of human HCC cells.
The aim of this study was to determine a predictive indicator of gemcitabine (GEM) efficacy in unresectable pancreatic cancer using tissue obtained by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNA).
Video seems advantageous over traditional text as an educational tool in conceptually-based procedures such as laparoscopy. However, this has never been tested directly.
Ligament injuries are common and significant clinical problems for which there are few established interventions. IACFM represents an intervention that may mediate tissue-level healing following ligament injury.
Cauda equina syndrome (CES) is a rare, potentially devastating, disorder and is considered a true neurologic emergency. CES often has a rapid clinical progression, making timely recognition and immediate surgical referral essential.
Gluteal muscle weakness has been proposed to be associated with lower extremity injury. Exercises to strengthen the gluteal muscles are frequently used in rehabilitation and injury prevention programs without scientific evidence regarding their ability to activate the targeted muscles.
Researchers have begun to investigate the effects of Kinesio Taping on different musculoskeletal conditions (eg, shoulder and trunk pain). Considering the demonstrated short-term effectiveness of Kinesio Tape for the management of shoulder pain, it is suggested that Kinesio Tape may also be beneficial in reducing pain associated with WAD.
Given the coexistence of pain and lower-arched foot alignment in patients with midfoot arthritis, arch-restoring orthotic devices such as the 3Q insert are frequently recommended. However, patients continue to report foot pain despite using the 3Q insert. The FL insert has been proposed as an alternative, but objective data examining its efficacy are lacking.
Pneumomediastinum after blunt thoracic trauma is often considered a marker of serious aerodigestive injury that leads to invasive testing. However, the efficacy of such testing in otherwise stable children remains unknown. We hypothesize that pneumomediastinum after blunt trauma in clinically stable children is rarely associated with significant underlying injury.
Liver nodules have been reported after portal systemic shunt surgery (PSSS) in animal experiments or in humans with liver cirrhosis. The aim of our study was to assess the incidence of liver nodules after surgery for extrahepatic portal vein obstruction (EHPVO) in children without associated liver disease.
Despite advances in the care of neonates with gastroschisis, patients present with significant morbidities. Preterm delivery of neonates with gastroschisis is often advocated to avoid the intestinal damage that may be sustained with prolonged exposure to amniotic fluid. However, preterm delivery may impose additional morbidities to this disease process.
Hemodialysis (HD) for children and adolescents with renal failure is increasingly common in the United States. Consensus opinion views an arteriovenous fistula (AVF) as the best long-term access option, although catheter-based HD remains the most common vascular access in children and has greater risks of complications and higher mortality rates than AVF access. This report reviews our experience with children and adolescents undergoing vascular access operations.
Information on physical and developmental outcomes of children with anatomical congenital anomalies (CAs) may indicate the need for early intervention and reduce impact on the child's life and parental burden.
The enteric ganglions and the outflow tract of the heart originate from the neural crest. Impaired migration or differentiation of the neural crest cells causes Hirschsprung's disease (HD) and results in the development of cardiac outflow tract malformations. We hypothesize that the incidence of HD and bowel disorders associated with HD are increased in patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) including left cardiac outflow tract obstruction.
Outcomes remain controversial for patients undergoing straight (SIAA) vs J pouch (JPAA) ileoanal anastomosis, particularly in children where fewer such cases are performed. Our 3 centers have had extensive experience with both techniques. Thus, we had the unique opportunity to compare outcomes within the same centers.
Sealing ability and bond strengths of total-etch and self-etch dentin adhesives used for immediate dentin sealing have not been assessed and established.
Radical hysterectomy based on empirical surgical anatomy to achieve a wide tumour resection is currently applied to treat early cervical cancer. Total mesometrial resection (TMMR) removes the embryologically defined uterovaginal (Mllerian) compartment except its distal part. Non-Mllerian paracervical and paravaginal tissues may remain in situ despite their possible close proximity to the tumour. We propose that in patients with early cervical cancer, the resection of the Mllerian compartment will lead to maximum local tumour control with low morbidity. We also propose that the relatively high rate of pelvic failure after conventional radical hysterectomy, despite adjuvant radiation, might be a consequence of the incomplete removal of the Mllerian compartment. The aim of our study was to test these hypotheses.
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
More accurate prognostic assessment of patients with neuroblastoma is required to better inform the choice of risk-related therapy. The aim of this study is to develop and validate a gene-expression signature to improve outcome prediction.
The Belgian Foundation Against Cancer, the Children Cancer Fund Ghent, the Belgian Society of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, the Belgian Kid's Fund and the Fondation Nuovo-Soldati (JV), the Fund for Scientific Research Flanders (KDP, JH), the Fund for Scientific Research Flanders, the Institute for the Promotion of Innovation by Science and Technology in Flanders, Strategisch basisonderzoek, the Fondation Fournier Majoie pour l'Innovation, the Instituto Carlos III, the Italian Neuroblastoma Foundation, the European Community under the FP6, and the Belgian programme of Interuniversity Poles of Attraction.
Testing for human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA is reportedly more sensitive than cytology for the detection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). The effectiveness of HPV testing in primary cervical screening was assessed in the ARTISTIC trial, which was done over two screening rounds approximately 3 years apart (2001-03 and 2004-07) by comparing liquid-based cytology (LBC) combined with HPV testing against LBC alone.
National Institute of Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme.
Obesity is a risk factor for cancer. Intentional weight loss in the obese might protect against malignancy, but evidence is limited. To our knowledge, the Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study is the first intervention trial in the obese population to provide prospective, controlled cancer-incidence data.
Swedish Research Council, Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research, Swedish Federal Government under the LUA/ALF agreement, Hoffmann La Roche, Cederoths, AstraZeneca, Sanofi-Aventis, Ethicon Endosurgery.
The supply of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids via the placenta is interrupted in premature infants, making them exclusively dependent on breast milk, which varies in fatty acid (FA) concentrations depending on the mother's diet.
The clinical presentation of malaria, considered as the result of a complex interaction between parasite and human genetics, is described to be different between rural and urban areas. The analysis of the Plasmodium falciparum genetic diversity in children with uncomplicated malaria, living in these two different areas, may help to understand the effect of urbanization on the distribution of P. falciparum genotypes.
An academic journal serves its purpose by being read and understood. International medical education journals that want to reach a wider readership must be accessible to a multitude of cultures and contexts. It is therefore important that authors and editors consider how their use of language will be interpreted by health care education colleagues who work in different settings. Given the increasing importance of communicating research findings in health care education, it is surprising that no surveys of the comprehensibility of medical education publications have been published in the medical education literature.
There is a severe shortage of health care workers in Ethiopia. This situation must be addressed by the efficient training of mass cohorts of students.
Mixed methods research involves the collection, analysis and integration of both qualitative and quantitative data in a single study. The benefits of a mixed methods approach are particularly evident when studying new questions or complex initiatives and interactions, which is often the case in medical education research. Basic guidelines for when to use mixed methods research and how to design a mixed methods study in medical education research are not readily available.
Medical trainees demonstrate a reluctance to ask for help unless they believe it is absolutely necessary, a situation which could impact on the safety of patients. This study aimed to develop a theoretical exploration of the pressure on medical trainees to be independent and to generate theory-based approaches to the implications for patient safety of this pressure towards independent working.
Simulators provide an effective platform for the learning of clinical motor skills such as endotracheal intubation, although the optimal learning technique remains unidentified. We hypothesised that, for novices, experiential learning would improve the learning and retention of endotracheal intubation compared with guided learning.
Although there are increasing numbers of studies of outcomes of high-fidelity patient simulators, few contrast their instruction with that provided by equivalent low-fidelity, inexpensive simulators. Further, examination of decays in learning and application (transfer) to real patient problems is rare. In this study, we compared the effects of training using a high-fidelity heart sound simulator (Harvey) and a low-fidelity simulator (a CD) on recognition of both simulated heart sounds and those in actual patients.
Poor interprofessional relationships in maternity units have resulted in a number of suboptimal outcomes: students are reluctant to pursue careers in obstetrics and gynaecology (O &amp; G); trainees feel bullied, and poor communication between professionals results in avoidable adverse events. Interprofessional learning has been advocated to improve interprofessional relationships, but recent interventions have not been successful at undergraduate level. This study aimed to address this issue locally and then to disseminate our lessons, successes and challenges.
Students' perceptions of their learning environment are of great importance to their learning process. In this study we assessed the time allocated by students to clerkship activities and the relationship between students' allocations of time and their perceptions of the quality of their clinical learning environment.
The use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for supporting interprofessional communication is becoming increasingly common in health care. However, little research has explored how ICTs affect interprofessional communication, or how novices are trained to be effective interprofessional ICT users. This study explores the interprofessional communication strategies of nurses and doctors (trainees and experts) when their communications were mediated by a specific ICT: an electronic patient record (EPR).
Our project investigated whether trained lay observers can reliably assess the communication skills of medical students by observing their patient encounters in an out-patient clinic.
The language and structure of doctor-patient consultations have been widely researched. Although simulated patients (SPs) are much used in communication skills teaching, the language of the simulated consultation has not received much attention.
This study set out to test the hypotheses that after the implementation of an integrated contextual medical curriculum (ICMC), ICMC students would attain higher levels of knowledge in both the basic and clinical sciences at an earlier stage than conventional medical curriculum (CMC) students, that ICMC students would perform significantly better on knowledge tests at the end of their education and, finally, that ICMC students would show a more linear acquisition of knowledge in the basic and clinical sciences.
A 58-year-old man who had a 35-year history of Crohn's disease presented to our IBD center with a disease flare, pararectal fistulas and abscess formation. The patient had previously undergone ileocolic resection for a stenosis and his abscesses had been treated by surgical drainage. He had been taking azathioprine therapy for approximately 5.5 years and had received high-dose steroids. He had also previously taken metronidazole and antihypertensive medications.
An increase in the level of intracellular calcium activates the calcium-dependent neutral protease calpain, which in turn leads to cellular dysfunction and cell death after an insult to the central nervous system. In this study, we evaluated the effect of a calpain inhibitor, AK 295, on spinal cord structure, neurologic function, and apoptosis after spinal cord injury (SCI) in a murine model.
The pursuit of bone fixation systems capable of affording appropriate stability for osteosynthesis has gone through several stages from the use of metal wires, plates, and screws to the current stage of bioabsorbable systems. In our Pediatric Neurosurgery Service and Craniofacial Surgery Unit we began employing these systems in June 1997. The object of this paper is to present a review of the bioabsorbable materials most commonly used in pediatric age, and more specifically in treating craniosynostosis, to describe the characteristics of each one of them and our experience.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of psychoeducation (PE) on quality of life in depressive patients at the Department of Psychiatry, University of Medicine of Graz.
The arginine deiminase system (ADS) of oral bacteria is a major generator of alkali (ammonia) in dental plaque and is considered to have anticaries effects. However, many of the antimicrobial agents used in oral care products may reduce alkali production by the ADS. The objective of our work was to assess the sensitivity of the ADS of oral streptococci to commonly used antimicrobials, fluoride, triclosan and organic weak acids.
Streptococcus mutans has been strongly implicated as the principal etiological agent in dental caries. As a gram-positive bacterium, S. mutans has a thick and compact cell wall to maintain the cell shape and protect the cells against mechanical or osmotic damage. Previous studies have proved that peptidoglycan is the main component of the cell wall involved in the autolysis or biofilm formation processes.
Bacterial viruses play crucial roles in the pathogenesis of many systemic diseases. They are known to inhabit the oral cavity, both as free virions and as prophages in lysogenic bacterial strains; however, there has been no report of bacteriophages in endodontic infections. In this study, we sought to detect, isolate, and describe temperate bacteriophages harbored by Enterococcus faecalis strains isolated from endodontic infections.
We investigated the mechanisms by which extracts of Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans affect the inflammatory response in gingival epithelial cells.
The nuclear protein high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) acts as a late mediator of inflammation when secreted in the extracellular milieu. In this study, we examined the effect of lipopolysaccharides from periodontal pathogens and apoptotic and necrotic cell death on HMGB1 production in human gingival fibroblasts (HGF).
The former Bacteroides intermedius, currently including Prevotella intermedia and Prevotella nigrescens, has been associated with hormone-induced pregnancy gingivitis. The aim of the present longitudinal study was to determine whether only P. intermedia or P. nigrescens, or both species, are involved in the demonstrated microbial shift during pregnancy.
The Prevotella intermedia group bacteria, namely P. intermedia, Prevotella nigrescens, and Prevotella pallens, are phylogenetically closely related and potentially connected with oral and gastrointestinal tract disease pathogenesis. The aim of the present study was to examine whether these species differ in their capabilities of adhesion to and invasion of epithelial cells.
Members of the genus Veillonella cannot be reliably distinguished by their biochemical characteristics and phenotypic features. Moreover, DNA-DNA hybridization and sequence analyses of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene including random fragment length polymorphism analysis, are complex and time-consuming procedures that are not well-suited to identifying oral species of Veillonella: Veillonella atypica, Veillonella denticariosi, Veillonella dispar, Veillonella parvula, and Veillonella rogosae.
We investigated the potential role of human papillomaviruses (HPVs) in potentially malignant oral disorders, oral leukoplakia (OL) and oral lichen planus (OLP), and in oral squamous cell cancer (OSCC) in an Eastern Hungarian population with a high incidence of OSCC.
Dental plaque pH decreases to about 4 through bacterial fermentation of carbohydrates and this low pH is maintained for from several minutes to about an hour. Repeated acidification causes demineralization of the tooth surface, resulting in caries formation. The acidification also influences plaque bacteria. Severe acidification kills bacteria efficiently, while physiological acidification, the condition occurring in plaque, kills bacteria partially and may impair growth ability. We, therefore, investigated the effects of physiological acidification on representative caries-related bacteria.
In the oral cavity, the surfaces are constantly exposed to a complex variety of microorganisms organized in biofilms. As part of a sophisticated local immune response, gingival epithelial cells (GECs) express antimicrobial peptides, such as human beta-defensin-2 (hBD-2), ribonuclease 7 (RNAase-7), and psoriasin (PSO), and pro-inflammatory mediators, such as interleukin-8 (IL-8) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO). The aim of the present study was to test whether GECs show a differential immune response to single-species biofilms compared with multi-species biofilms.
Type 1 diabetes is a major risk factor for the development of severe periodontal disease. As diabetes increases in severity, so does the susceptibility to and severity of periodontitis. People with diabetes who have periodontal disease have a harder time maintaining healthy blood glucose levels. Macrophages play an important role in both diabetes and periodontitis. Previous research comparing bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BM-Mvarphi) from diabetic non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice and control mice illustrates that a dysregulation in cytokine, Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression, and cell signaling occurs in the diabetic state.
Herpesviruses play causal or cooperative roles in childhood infections, tumorigenesis, ulcerogenesis, and periodontitis. Saliva is a common vehicle of herpesvirus horizontal transmission, but the source of salivary herpesviruses remains obscure. To evaluate the significance of periodontal disease in shedding of oral herpesviruses, this study determined the genome-copy counts of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in whole saliva of subjects with periodontitis, gingivitis, or no natural teeth.
The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence and molecular diversity of Archaea in the subgingival crevices of patients with chronic periodontitis.
Endodontic infections are very prevalent and have a polymicrobial etiology characterized by complex interrelationships between endodontic microorganisms and the host defenses. Proteomic analysis of endodontic infections can provide global insights into the invasion, pathogenicity mechanisms, and multifactorial interactions existing between root canal bacteria and the host in the initiation and progression of apical periodontitis. The purpose of this study was to apply proteomic techniques such as liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for the identification of proteins of bacterial origin present in endodontic infections.
A case series of the cardiac magnetic resonance imaging findings in seven adult Alstrm patients.
It has been proposed that microbubble (MB) monitoring can be used to safely titrate radiofrequency (RF) power. However, MB formation has been found to be an insensitive indicator of tissue temperature during RF delivery. We hypothesized that MB formation corresponds to surface-not tissue--temperature, and therefore would be an insensitive predictor of steam pops.
The aim of this study was to compare contact versus noncontact mapping for radiofrequency (RF) ablation of any sustained post-myocardial infarction (MI) ventricular tachycardia (VT).
Myocardial refractoriness and repolarization is an important electrophysiological property that, when altered, increases the risk of arrhythmogenesis. These electrophysiological changes associated with chronic myocardial infarction (MI) have not been studied in detail. We assessed the influence of left ventricular (LV) scarring on local refractoriness, repolarization, and electrogram characteristics.
In some patients with recurrent syncope, the etiology may remain unclear despite extensive evaluation. These patients may sometimes be labeled as having a "psychogenic" cause for their syncope.
The crista terminalis (CT) is known to be a functional barrier during typical atrial flutter (AFL). The relationship between the CT structural characteristics and its transverse conduction block, however, has not been understood well.
Nonpulsatile left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are increasingly used for treatment of refractory heart failure. A majority of such patients have implanted cardiac devices, namely implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) or cardiac resynchronization therapy-pacemaker (CRT-P) or cardiac resynchronization therapy-defibrillator (CRT-D) devices. However, potential interactions between LVADs and cardiac devices in this category of patients remain unknown.
Temporary epicardial pacing is often necessary following surgical correction of congenital heart disease. Epicardial pacing wires, while generally effective, can, however, become nonfunctional. Transesophageal atrial pacing (TEAP) can be a useful adjunct in this setting. The potential for esophageal damage with sustained TEAP is unknown. We assessed the safety of continuous (24 hours) TEAP by evaluating gross and histological changes to the esophagus in a canine model.
Pacing from right ventricular (RV) septal sites has been suggested as an alternative to RV apical pacing in an attempt to avoid long-term adverse consequences on left ventricular function. Concern has been raised as to the relationship of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) to pacing leads in these positions.
Device-related infections represent a significant clinical challenge. Once established, these infections prove difficult to treat with existing antibiotic regimens, compromising the health of device recipients, and usually requiring surgical intervention to resolve.
Unexplained and potentially arrhythmic symptoms often lead to electrophysiology referral for evaluation. Implantable loop recorder (ILR) correlation of the symptom to the rhythm can secure a definitive arrhythmic diagnosis after a standard, yet nondiagnostic workup.
Besides implantation of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), a proportion of patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction due to ischemic cardiomyopathy are potential candidates for surgical LV reconstruction (Dor procedure), which changes LV ejection fraction (LVEF) considerably. In these patients, LVEF as selection criterium for ICD implantation may be difficult. This study aimed to determine the value of LVEF as criterium for ICD implantation in heart failure patients undergoing surgical LV reconstruction.
Children undergoing laryngotracheal reconstruction (LTR) may remain electively intubated in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) for several days following surgery to facilitate wound healing. These patients require sedation and analgesia with or without neuromuscular blockade in order to prevent excessive head and neck movement with resultant tension on the tracheal anastomosis. Achieving this level of immobility features in caring for these children.
During the last years engineered nanoparticles (NPs) have been extensively used in different technologies and consequently many questions have arisen about the risk and the impact on human health following exposure to nanoparticles. Nevertheless, at present knowledge about the cytotoxicity induced by NPs is still largely incomplete. In this context, we have investigated the cytotoxicity induced by gold nanoparticles (AuNPs), which differed in size and purification grade (presence or absence of sodium citrate residues on the particle surface) in vitro, in the human alveolar type-II (ATII)-like cell lines A549 and NCIH441.
High quality annotation of the genes and transposable elements in complex genomes requires a human-curated integration of multiple sources of computational evidence. These evidences include results from a diversity of ab initio prediction programs as well as homology-based searches. Most of these programs operate on a single contiguous sequence at a time, and the results are generated in a diverse array of readable formats that must be translated to a standardized file format. These translated results must then be concatenated into a single source, and then presented in an integrated form for human curation.
Together with a multi-professional working group, the author was responsible for the development of the German Psychiatric Association's treatment guideline on Aggressive Behaviour. Using his experience during this process, he makes some critical comments on the current methods of developing evidence-based treatment recommendations.
Because of the presence of pronounced impulsiveness and affective dysregulation in subjects with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) executive dysfunctions have been suspected. Previous studies in this area revealed inconsistent results. However, most of these studies did not control for comorbidity (e. g. impulsiveness, depression) and current medication of participants. The aim of this study was, therefore, to investigate executive (dys)functions in patients with BPD and healthy controls controlling for impulsivity. Furthermore, a second control group with depression was included to test the specificity of the results.
Smoking among nurses is higher than other health care professionals but nurse-specific cessation programs are limited. Nurses QuitNet, launched in January 2004, provided an evidence-based online smoking cessation program for nurses and nursing students.
Gang youth often come from socially and economically marginalized communities. Such youth report significantly higher rates of participation in violence, substance use, and risky sexual behaviors than their nongang peers.
We conducted this prospective randomized study to compare the success rate and the onset time between 3 intensities of stimulation threshold (&lt;0.5, 0.5-0.64, and 0.65-0.8 mA) when using a peripheral nerve stimulation at the midhumeral level.
This prospective, randomized, observer-blinded study compared ultrasound-guided supraclavicular (SCB), infraclavicular (ICB), and axillary (AXB) brachial plexus blocks for upper extremity surgery of the elbow, forearm, wrist, and hand.
Depletion of ovarian follicles is associated with the end of reproductive function in ageing females. Recently, it has been described that this process parallels increases in the concentration of norepinephrine (NE) in the rat ovary. In sexually mature rats, experimentally-induced increases in the sympathetic tone of the ovary is causally related to ovarian cyst formation and deranged follicular development. Thus, there is a possibility that increased ovarian NE concentrations represent changes in the activity of sympathetic nerves, which consequently participate in the process of ovarian cyst formation observed during ageing in the human and experimental animal models.
Highly active antiretroviral therapy produces a significant decrease in HIV-1 replication and allows an increase in the CD4 T-cell count, leading to a decrease in the incidence of opportunistic infections and mortality. However, the cost, side effects and complexity of antiretroviral regimens have underscored the immediate need for additional therapeutic approaches. Statins exert pleiotropic effects through a variety of mechanisms, among which there are several immunoregulatory effects, related and unrelated to their cholesterol-lowering activity that can be useful to control HIV-1 infection.
Registration number NCT00721305.
Heart failure patients with implantable defibrillators (ICD) frequently visit the clinic for routine device monitoring. Moreover, in the case of clinical events, such as ICD shocks or alert notifications for changes in cardiac status or safety issues, they often visit the emergency department or the clinic for an unscheduled visit. These planned and unplanned visits place a great burden on healthcare providers. Internet-based remote device interrogation systems, which give physicians remote access to patients' data, are being proposed in order to reduce routine and interim visits and to detect and notify alert conditions earlier.
ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00873899.
The mechanism by which renal cancer patients show poor response to chemotherapy has not been well understood. The aim of this study was to evaluate the functional activity of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in renal clear cell carcinoma (RCCC) and its possible role in chemotherapy resistance.
Genetic susceptibility contributes to the risk of prostate cancer but the underlying genes are largely unknown. Polymorphic loci on chromosome 8q24 have emerged as possible risk factors for breast and prostate cancer from genome-wide association studies.
Hyaluronidases (HAases) are enzymes related to cancer progression. Isoforms of HAases have been described as products of alternative splicing responsible for differences in enzyme activity. The heterogeneity of HAase expression has been identified in tumors and could be related to the differences in their biological behavior.
Hepatitis B infection is hyper-endemic in Tonga and 19% of pregnant women test positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). Routine childhood immunization against hepatitis B was introduced in 1989 and the target for elimination was set at &lt;1% HBsAg prevalence in children. A study conducted in 1998, a decade after the introduction of hepatitis B immunization, found the HBsAg prevalence to be 3.8% in pre-school children. The finding resulted in the strengthening of the delivery of hepatitis B vaccine with emphasis on providing the first dose within 24h after birth. The aim of this study was to measure the impact of improved immunization practices on the prevalence of hepatitis B infection in pre-school children, and to assess the progress towards hepatitis B elimination in Tonga. MEASURED OUTCOME: Prevalence of HBsAg antigen.
Spontaneous rupture of the right gastroepiploic artery is an extremely rare case which can be a cause of abdominal apoplexy.
Hepatic embryonal sarcoma (HES) is a rare but aggressive primary tumor of the liver occurring most frequently in childhood.
TE is an extraintestinal complication of IBD for which there are no clear treatment guidelines. Systemic treatment with anticoagulants or thrombolytics often raises fear of hemorrhagic complications, particularly hematochezia.
There is still ambiguity about whether continuous or intermittent orthodontic forces produce more root resorption. This prospective randomized clinical trial was designed to compare root resorption with these 2 force application patterns.
Patients with masticatory dysfunction have a higher incidence of gastrointestinal disorders including gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Masticatory function is significantly lower in patients with skeletal Class III malocclusion than in those with normal occlusion. However, GERD symptoms in patients with skeletal Class III malocclusion are still unknown. The purpose of this study was to examine GERD symptoms and masticatory functions in patients with skeletal Class III malocclusion.
The aim of the study was to quantify the forces delivered by thermoplastic appliances made of 2 materials with 2 thicknesses to a maxillary central incisor during tipping.
Friction measurements in orthodontics are often derived from models by using brackets placed on flat models with various straight wires. Dental arches are convex in some areas. The objectives of this study were to compare the frictional forces generated in conventional flat and convex dental arch setups, and to evaluate the effect of different archwires on friction in both dental arch models.
Diagnostic measurements have traditionally been made on plaster dental casts. Now, 3-dimensional digital dental models can be used. The purpose of this study was to compare space analysis measurements made on digital models with those from plaster dental casts.
The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy and reliability of 3-dimensional craniofacial measurements obtained from cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) scans of a dry human skull.
Dental measurements are an integral part of the orthodontic records necessary for proper diagnosis and treatment planning. In this study, we investigated the reliability and accuracy of dental measurements made on cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) reconstructions.
The objectives of this study were to determine the survival rate of titanium surgical miniscrews and the clinical parameters that posed the highest risks for failure.
Our objective was to evaluate the condylar, ramal, and condylar-plus-ramal mandibular vertical asymmetry in a group of adolescent subjects with normal occlusion and unilateral and bilateral posterior crossbite malocclusions.
The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of the cast Herbst/multibracket (MB) appliance on the position of the mandibular incisors in relation to the amount of mandibular advancement at the beginning of treatment.
Because of the hereditary nature of Class III malocclusion, relatives of affected subjects often ask for a consultation. To estimate the degree of skeletal manifestation without exposing them to radiation, an alternative to lateral cephalograms would be valuable for preliminary diagnosis. Thus, we aimed to assess the validity of profile photographs to detect skeletal Class III discrepancy.
Accurate prediction of the timing of the pubertal growth spurt and the amount of remaining growth are factors that affect treatment decisions in orthodontics, orthognathic surgery, and dental implantology. For many years, medical and dental professionals have considered hand-wrist radiographs the method of choice for the assessment of skeletal maturity. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) mirrors growth hormone levels and is used by endocrinologists to diagnose growth hormone disturbances.
We compared arch dimension changes in 1-phase and 2-phase treatment of Class II malocclusion. This was a prospective randomized clinical trial conducted in the Department of Orthodontics at the University of Florida between 1990 and 2003.
In this preliminary study, we investigated early histologic changes of paradental tissues in response to a clear plastic appliance in rats.
In testing bond strengths, various storage media are used. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of 6 storage media and rinsing on the shear bond strength of bonded orthodontic brackets.
The objective of this study was to analyze rates of canine movement over the first 2 months of continuous retraction, when rate changes are expected.
The objective of this study was to evaluate a new method for superimposition of 3-dimensional (3D) models of growing subjects.
Our purpose was to study the in-vitro cytotoxic and estrogenic properties of Invisalign appliances (Align Technology, Santa Clara, Calif).
Cortical bone thickness and overall bone depth are important factors to consider when placing an orthodontic mini-implant. The purpose of this study was to investigate both variables in the palate quantitatively to aid clinicians in planning successful mini-implant placements.
Radiographic cephalometry is a complex area of study. The literature shows a lack of interobserver reproducibility in the definition and identification of cephalometric landmarks. The aim of this study was to test a learning virtual object (LVO) called ceph learning used in the teaching of radiographic cephalometry and to verify whether it improves performance of the landmarking process.
Diaphragm thickness is increased in cystic fibrosis (CF), but it shows a marked variability between patients. The variable response of the diaphragm to loading may reflect the combined and opposite effects of training by the respiratory disease and systemic inflammation.
The molecular mechanisms underlying acute exacerbations of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) are poorly understood. We studied the global gene expression signature of acute exacerbations of IPF.
The promise of newborn screening (NBS) for cystic fibrosis (CF) has not been fully realized, and the extent of improvement in respiratory outcomes is unclear. We hypothesized that significant lung disease was present at diagnosis.
The proportion of low and very low birth weight births is increasing. Infants and children with a history of low and very low birth weight have an increased risk of respiratory illnesses, but it is unknown if clinically significant disease persists into adulthood.
Chronic elevation of pulmonary microvascular pressure in chronic heart failure results in compensatory changes in the lung that reduce alveolar fluid filtration and protect against pulmonary microvascular rupture.
Airway remodeling in asthma is associated with the accumulation of fibroblasts, the primary cell responsible for synthesis and secretion of extracellular matrix proteins. The process by which the number of fibroblasts increases in asthma is poorly understood, but epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) may play a significant role.
A well-known clinical paradox is that severe bacterial infections persist in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) despite the abundance of polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) and the presence of a high concentration of human neutrophil peptides (HNP), both of which are expected to kill the bacteria but fail to do so. The mechanisms remain unknown.
Prior research has suggested an association between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and the development of cognitive decline; however, these studies have been cross-sectional or small case series.
During long-term lung infection in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains develop mutations leading to clonal expansion. This microevolution is believed to be correlated with a reduced virulence.
Viral kinetics during therapy provides information on how to individualize treatment. To determine the benefit of assessing positive predictive values (PPVs) and negative predictive values (NPVs) of rapid virological responses (RVRs) and early virological responses (EVRs), on-treatment outcomes in chronic hepatitis C patients were examined.
We aimed to investigate the effects of ribavirin on hepatitis C virus (HCV). Immunological and virological effects were analysed in patients undergoing treatment with ribavirin monotherapy prior to the initiation of combination therapy with interferon-alpha.
This study aimed to evaluate HIV type-1 (HIV-1) drug resistance pretreatment and in those failing first-line non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) in South Africa.
This study was conducted to construct a basis for a therapeutic strategy against human T-lymphotropic virus type-I (HTLV-I)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) using a compound that contained a disulfide moiety, prosultiamine, which is a homologue of allithiamine originally synthesized by allicin and thiamine-thiol, for the targeting of HTLV-I-infected cells.
Proteinuria is associated with progressive renal disease and overall mortality in HIV-infected patients; however, the prevalence and correlates of quantitative proteinuria in the highly active antiretroviral therapy era are unknown.
HIV type-1 (HIV-1) has been shown to be frequently transmitted by acutely infected patients. We investigated the relationship between the dynamics of HIV-1 transmission within recently infected patients, the HIV-1 variability and the transmission of antiretroviral drug resistance.
Lamivudine (3TC)-resistant chronic hepatitis B patients demonstrated a higher rate of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) resistance compared with nucleoside-naive patients. This study describes ADV mutation patterns in 3TC-resistant patients treated with ADV+3TC or ADV monotherapy, investigating whether mutations selected during 3TC therapy predispose to ADV resistance. Risk factors for ADV resistance were also evaluated.
Our goal was to determine the incidence rate and risk factors for loss to follow-up (LTFU) of HIV-infected patients in Northern France.
Failure of anti-hepatitis C therapy encompasses both primary non-response and post-treatment relapse. Treatment failure to pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN)-alpha2b and ribavirin (RBV) largely depends upon virus genotype, but the interaction between genotype, cirrhosis and pattern of treatment failure is unclear. We aimed to assess whether cirrhosis modifies the pattern of PEG-IFN-alpha2b and RBV treatment failure.
A previous clinical study of oral clevudine monotherapy for 24 weeks demonstrated that it has potent sustained antiviral effects without inducing drug resistance. The aim of this study was to evaluate the antiviral effects and safety of clevudine monotherapy for 12 months.
Telaprevir (TVR) is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3.4A protease inhibitor that has exhibited antiviral activity in patients with HCV genotype 1 infection. The viral dynamics in patients dosed with TVR were compared with those reported for patients treated with interferon (IFN).
HIV type-1 (HIV-1) resistance to enfuvirtide (ENF) is mediated by mutations in the HR1 domain of gp41. We have previously shown that some of these mutations are selected in the context of env backgrounds that are not dominant before exposure to ENF, suggesting that particular env environments could facilitate phenotypic expression of HR1-mediated ENF resistance.
Once-daily lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) is not approved for treatment of HIV paediatric patients. Once daily treatment in children might serve the same goals of patient comfort and adherence as in adults.
Exploratory video-assisted thoracoscopy (EVT) can be used to assess the resectability of lung carcinomas. The aim of this study was to investigate the usefulness of this technique for distinguishing between tumors that invade the chest wall and should be staged as T3 and tumors that have been incorrectly staged as T3 on the basis of imaging studies.
The outcomes of lung transplantation 11 years after starting the transplantation program in our hospital are presented. Risk factors associated with short-, medium-, and long-term mortality in transplant recipients were analyzed.
Type 1A diabetes mellitus (T1ADM) is a multifactorial disease in which genetic and environmental aspects are important to its development. The association of genetic variations with disease has been demonstrated in several studies; however, the role of some gene loci has not yet been fully elucidated.
Acromegalic patients have better chances to develop colorectal polyps and cancer and, considered a high-risk group, need to undergo frequent screening examinations. Moreover, in acromegalia, the increased bowel length and the intestinal loop complexity can lead to higher levels of technical difficulties and increase the risks of complications at conventional colonoscopy. Computed tomographic colonography, also known as virtual colonoscopy, is an innovative and secure technology which is revolutionizing the diagnosis of colon and rectum neoplasias.
The association between Helicobacter pylori infection and colon neoplasia has been the subject of recent investigations which have produced controversial results.
For the diagnosis of the diseases which affect the terminal ileum, the colonoscopy allows macroscopic evaluation and the performing of biopsies. Studies with criteria for the endoscopic and histological characterization of this segment are scarce and there are still some doubts about the need of biopsies in patients with normal ileoscopy.
Differential diagnosis of hyperplastic vs adenomatous lesions is of crucial importance on the daily practice of colonoscopy.
Multiband imaging (MBI)/Fuji Intelligent Color Enhancement (FICE) is a spectral image processing technology that helps in vivo diagnosis of colorectal neoplasias.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is the most common mesenchymal tumor. Cellular proliferation and apoptosis is gaining importance for predicting prognosis in several cancers.
Correction of voluminous hernias and large abdominal wall defects is a big challenge in surgical practice due to technical difficulties and the high incidence of respiratory and cardiovascular complications.
Barrett's esophagus is characterized by the presence of goblet cells. However, when alcian-blue is utilized, another type of cells, called columnar blue cells, is frequently present in the distal esophagus of patients with endoscopic evidence of Barrett's esophagus. Cytokeratin 7 and 20 immunoreactivity has been previously studied in areas of intestinal metaplasia at the esophagogastric junction. However, the expression of these cytokeratins in columnar blue cells has not been characterized.
It has been suggested that coinfected patients HCV/HIV must be treated with pegylated interferon associated to ribavirin (PEG+RBV), because of better taxes of sustained virological response when compared to those treated with conventional interferon associated to ribavirin (IFN+RBV). There are few studies in the literature comparing these two treatments options in this population.
The surgical treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease is indicated in patients with a chronic condition when proton pump inhibitors therapy is ineffective or when symptoms are persistently recurrent. Fundoplication failure occurrence has been detected in some patients and highlights a needing of monitoring esophageal post-surgical condition since that clinical symptoms are not sensitive enough for indicating fundoplication failure.
Mothers recall early-onset constipation in children attending gastroenterology clinics.
Successful liver transplantation not only treats the underlying liver disease but also restores libido and fertility in female recipients. Although reports of successful pregnancy after liver transplantation continue to increase, these pregnancies are considered of high-risk because they are associated with increase maternofetal morbidity.
Termination of translation in eukaryotes is controlled by two interacting polypeptide chain release factors, eRF1 and eRF3. While eRF1 recognizes nonsense codons, eRF3 facilitates polypeptide chain release from the ribosome in a GTP-dependent manner. Besides termination, both release factors have essential, but poorly characterized functions outside of translation.
Many tuberculosis (TB) patients in Indonesia are diagnosed late. We seek to document patient journeys toward TB diagnosis and treatment and factors that influence health care seeking behavior.
Whether immunosuppressive treatment adversely affects survival is unclear.
Melatonin is well-established as a powerful reducing agent of oxidant generated in the cell medium. We aimed to investigate how readily melatonin is oxidized by peroxyl radicals ROO generated by the thermolysis of 2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane) hydrochloride (AAPH) and the role of glutathione (GSH) during the reaction course.
Due to increasing antibiotics resistance, antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are receiving increased attention. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a major pathogen in this context, involved, e.g., in keratitis and wound infections. Novel bactericidal agents against this pathogen are therefore needed.
Antimicrobial agents, with different pore-formation mechanisms, may be differently influenced by alteration of the dipolar electric field of a lipid membrane.
How neurons and neuronal circuits transform sensory input into behavior is not well understood. Because of its well-described, simple nervous system, Caenorhabditis elegans is an ideal model organism to study this issue. Transformation of sensory signals into neural activity is a crucial first step in the sensory-motor transformation pathway in an animal's nervous system. We examined the properties of chemosensory ASK neurons of C. elegans during sensory stimulation.
The sialidase Neu2 is a cytosolic enzyme which is fully expressed in mature muscle myofibers.
Peroxynitrite (PN) is formed from superoxide and nitric oxide, both of which are increased during hepatic ethanol metabolism. Peroxynitrite forms adducts with proteins, causing structural and functional alterations. Here, we investigated PN-induced alterations in lysozyme structure and function, and whether they altered the protein's susceptibility to proteasome-catalyzed degradation.
Heme oxidative degradation has been extensively investigated in peroxidases but not in catalases. The verdoheme formation, a product of heme oxidation which inactivates the enzyme, was studied in Proteus mirabilis catalase.
Morphine has been shown to affect the function of immune system, but the precise mechanism remains to be elucidated. The present study was aimed to clarify the mechanism for the morphine-induced immune suppression by analyzing the direct effect of morphine on human CD3+ T cells.
The Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA)-related lectins have been reported to bear antiproliferative and apoptosis-inducing activities in cancer cells; however, the precise mechanisms by which GNA-related lectins induce cell death are still only rudimentarily understood.
Plagiochin E (PLE) is an antifungal macrocyclic bis(bibenzyl) isolated from liverwort Marchantia polymorpha L. Its antifungal mechanism is unknown. To elucidate the mechanism of action, its effect on mitochondria function in Candida albicans was studied.
Recently, particle bombardment has become increasingly popular as a transfection method, because of a reduced dependency on target cell characteristics. In this study, we evaluated in vitro gene transfer by particle bombardment.
RNA has attracted recent attention for its key role in gene expression and hence targeting by small molecules for therapeutic intervention. This study is aimed to elucidate the specificity of the alkaloid coralyne to poly(G), poly(C), poly(I) and poly(U) in the light of its ability in inducing self-structure in poly(A).
Retinal sensitivity anomalies have been reported in patients affected by seasonal affective disorder (SAD). We used the electroretinogram (ERG) to assess seasonal change in retinal function in patients with SAD and healthy participants, as well as in patients following 4 weeks of light therapy.
Evidence suggests that structural brain changes occur over time in bipolar disorder but few studies have examined this longitudinally. Additional work implicates brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) valine (val)(66)methionine (met) variant in these changes. The present study examined longitudinal trends in prefrontal gyrification index (GI) in bipolar disorder and the effect of BDNF genotype.
The neuroprotective and trophic actions of erythropoietin (EPO) have been tested in several animal models of insult, injury, and neurodegeneration. Recent studies in human volunteers demonstrated that EPO improves cognition and also elicits antidepressant effects. It is believed that the behavioral effects are mediated by EPO's trophic effect on neuronal systems. We therefore tested whether EPO is able to alter behavior and brain gene expression in rats.
Depressive disorders are associated with immune system alterations that can be detected in the blood. Cytokine concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and their relationship to aspects of suicidality have previously not been investigated.
The majority of affective psychopathology is rooted early in life and first emerges during childhood and adolescence. However, little is known about how genetic vulnerability affects brain structure and function in childhood since the vast majority of studies published so far have been conducted on adult participants. The present investigation examined for the first time the effects of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) valine (val) 158 methionine (met) (val158met) polymorphism, which has been shown to moderate predisposition to negative mood and affective disorders, on brain structure and function in children.
Little is known about the serotonin-1A receptor (5-HT1A) in bipolar depression despite altered 5-HT1A binding in major depressive disorder. Utilizing positron emission tomography (PET) and the radioligand N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide ([Carbonyl-C-11]WAY-100635), 5-HT1A binding was compared between depressed bipolar disorder (BD) and controls.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive procedure that may be used to study individual differences in motor cortex excitability. Such differences are assumed to reflect serotonergic and other inputs to the motor cortex.
Childhood adversity increases the risk of psychopathology, but the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this vulnerability are not well-understood. In animal models, early adversity is associated with dysfunction in basal ganglia regions involved in reward processing, but this relationship has not been established in humans.
The development of a rapid-acting and sustainable treatment for bipolar disorder (BPD) depression has been a goal for decades. The most widely documented rapid-onset antidepressant therapy is sleep deprivation (SD), which acts within 24-48 hours in 40%-60% of depressed patients. Conventional antidepressants usually require 2-8 weeks to meet response criteria. The delay, which may prolong suffering and increase suicidal risk, underlines the urgency of alternative treatment strategies. This study evaluates the combined efficacy of three established circadian-related treatments (SD, bright light [BL]), sleep phase advance [SPA]) as adjunctive treatment to lithium and antidepressants.
Monoamine dysfunction, particularly of the serotonin system, has been the dominant hypothesis guiding research and treatment development in affective disorders. The majority of research has been performed in midlife depressed adults. The importance of understanding the neurobiology of depression in older adults is underscored by increased rates of mortality and completed suicide and an increased risk of Alzheimer's dementia. To evaluate the dynamic response of the serotonin system, the acute effects of citalopram infusion on cerebral glucose metabolism was measured in depressed older adults and control subjects. The hypothesis was tested that smaller decreases in metabolism would be observed in cortical and limbic regions in depressed older adults relative to control subjects.
Many recent studies have identified white matter abnormalities in late life depression (LLD). These abnormalities include an increased volume of discrete white matter hyperintensities on T2-weighted imaging (WMH) and changes in the diffusion tensor properties of water. However, no study of LLD to date has examined the integrity of white matter outside of WMH (i.e., in normal-appearing white matter).
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a common and debilitating condition, often beginning in adolescence. Converging evidence from genetic and neuroimaging studies indicates that white matter abnormalities may be involved in BD. In this study, we investigated white matter structure in adolescents with familial bipolar disorder using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and a whole brain analysis.
We investigated whether performance on a reward processing task differs between fully remitted patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and healthy control subjects after catecholamine depletion.
Many studies link depression to an increase in the excitatory-inhibitory ratio in the forebrain. Presynaptic alterations in a shared pathway of the glutamate/gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) cycle may account for this imbalance. Evidence suggests that decreased vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) levels in the forebrain affect the glutamate/GABA cycle and induce helpless behavior. We studied decreased VGLUT1 as a potential factor enhancing a depressive-like phenotype in an animal model.
Altered expression of serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptors, both presynaptic in the raphe nuclei and post-synaptic in limbic and cortical target areas, has been implicated in mood disorders such as major depression and anxiety. Within the 5-HT1A receptor gene, a powerful dual repressor element (DRE) is regulated by two protein complexes: Freud-1/CC2D1A and a second, unknown repressor. Here we identify human Freud-2/CC2D1B, a Freud-1 homologue, as the second repressor.
Vertebral fracture is associated with an increased risk of atraumatic fracture and mortality. The prevalence of vertebral fractures among postmenopausal Caucasian women has been reported to range between 15% and 35%. Because there is no estimate of the magnitude of the problem in Vietnam, we undertook this study to estimate the prevalence and risk factors of vertebral fracture in Vietnam.
Sex steroids have distinct effects on bone growth and maintenance in men and women, mediated through their respective steroid receptors. Though most evidence is derived from animal studies, several concepts have been confirmed in humans by detection of specific mutations. In this report we describe changes in bone size and volumetric bone density in a complete androgen insensitive subject (CAIS) due to a mutation in the androgen receptor during 5 years of estrogen treatment.
SP is a neuropeptide distributed in the sensory nerve fibers that innervate the medullar tissues of bone, as well as the periosteum. Previously we demonstrated that inhibition of neuropeptide signaling after capsaicin treatment resulted in a loss of bone mass and we hypothesized that SP contributes to bone integrity by stimulating osteogenesis.
Differences in osteoporotic hip fracture incidence between American whites and blacks and between women and men are considered to result, in part, from differences in bone mineral density and geometry at the femur. The aim of this study was to quantify differences in femoral bone density and geometry between a large sample of healthy American white and black women and men.
At least 12 distinct forms of amyloidosis are known to involve the heart or great vessels. Patient treatment regimens require proper subtyping of amyloid deposits in small diagnostic cardiac specimens. A growing lack of confidence in immunohistochemical staining for subtyping amyloid has arisen primarily as a result of studies utilizing immunoperoxidase staining of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. Immunofluorescence staining on fresh frozen tissue is generally considered superior to immunoperoxidase staining for subtyping amyloid; however, this technique has not previously been reported in a series of cardiac specimens.
Extracellular matrix changes occur in many heart valve pathologies. For example, myxomatous mitral valves are reported to contain excess proteoglycans and hyaluronan. However, it is unknown which specific proteoglycans are altered in myxomatous valves. Because proteoglycans perform varied functions in connective tissues, this study was designed to identify and localize three matrix-associated proteoglycans, as well as hyaluronan and the hyaluronan receptor for endocytosis, within myxomatous and normal mitral valves.
Infective endocarditis (IE) of the pulmonary valve is uncommon and usually occurs in conjunction with tricuspid and/or left-sided valvular endocarditis. There have been only sporadic reports of isolated pulmonary valvular infective endocarditis (PVIE). This report documents the pathological features of nine such cases at autopsy.
The purpose of this study was to describe cases presenting with fibromuscular hyperplasia of the pulmonary arteries that could belong to the group of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and sudden unexpected perinatal death "gray zone" or borderline cases.
With the increasing use of left ventricular assist devices, the left ventricular apical core has become a more frequently encountered surgical pathology tissue. We investigated the prognostic value of this cardiac tissue in short-term patient mortality. Previous studies have shown that the degree of cardiac fibrosis correlates with improvements in ejection fraction and the likelihood of weaning from an assist device.
A discrete subaortic membrane (DSM) is one of the causes of subaortic stenosis in children. The incidence, characteristics, and the therapeutic options for such membranes in adults have not been well documented. This report documents the clinical and pathological features of DSM in adults.
Interleukin (IL)-23, composed of p19 and p40 subunits, has diverse functions in regulating immune systems, enhancing cell-mediated immunity. In the present study, we investigated whether forced expression of the p19-linked p40 gene in murine mammary cancer cells (MA891) produced antitumor effects in vivo. Tumor growth of MA-891 cells expressing IL-23 (IL-23/MA891) in mice was retarded compared with parental and vector DNA-transduced tumors and survival of the mice inoculated with IL-23/MA-891 cells was prolonged. Expressions of the CD4(+) T cells and CD8(+) T cells were up-regulated not only in IL-23/MA-891 tumor specimens but also in spleen cells of mice inoculated with IL-23/MA-891 as compared with those of mice inoculated with parental or vector DNA-transduced tumors. Cytotoxic CD8(+) T lymphocyte (CTL) activity of spleen cells from mice inoculated with IL-23/MA-891 was also significantly higher than the other two groups. Th1-type cytokines such as interferon-gamma, TNF-alpha and IL-12p70 secreted from spleen cells of mice bearing IL-23/MA-891 tumors were increased while Th2-type cytokine IL-4 was negative regulated. Moreover, we have identified that the quantity of DC in spleen cells of mice bearing IL-23/MA-891 tumors was increased as compared with those mice bearing parental or vector DNA-transfected tumors.
Few studies have offered comparative information on the mechanical characteristics of different wheelchair seat cushions. The objective of the present study was to compare the benefits of the wheelchair seat cushions most frequently used in a population of patients with spinal cord injury in terms of pressure distribution and contact surface at the user-cushion interface.
Compared to conventional ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE), crosslinked polyethylene showed significantly reduced wear rate in hip simulation and early prospective-randomized clinical studies. The crosslinking process can reduce the mechanical properties of UHMWPE, particularly the fatigue strength. UHMWPE fatigue occurs more frequently in the knee joint than in the hip joint due to its higher contact stresses and there is therefore an increased concern of mechanical failure. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the wear behaviour and the wear rates of different current knee designs and bearing materials.
Ambulatory people with central cord syndrome often require assistive devices. The selection of a suitable assistive device should be based on an objective assessment. Our objective in this study was to determine whether there was any difference in using two crutches over one crutch, considering that these patients have bilateral upper-limb involvement.
Techniques such as varying screw insertion angles and the use of locked plating have been shown to improve the strength of fixation in bone. The effects of these methods is less clearly understood in bone of exceedingly poor quality.
The histologic and biomechanical effects of intra-articular hyaluronic acid on the anterior cruciate ligaments of rats were investigated.
A number of different models for human trunk kinematics during locomotion have been proposed, though mainly addressing specific clinical questions rather than general populations. These differ considerably for the skeletal segments considered, marker-set, anatomical axis and frame definitions, and joint conventions. The scope of the present study is to compare quantitatively these models on the basis of the same motion.
Upright sitting is one of the first developmental motor milestones achieved by infants, and sitting postural sway provides a window into the developing motor control system. A variety of posture sway measures can be used, but the optimal measures for infant development have not been identified.
Comparative studies between single-joint electromyography (EMG)- and optimization-driven models of the human spine in estimating trunk muscle and spinal compression forces have not been conclusive. Due to associated implications in ergonomic applications as well as prevention and treatment managements of low-back disorders, there is a need to critically compare existing single- and multi-joint spine models.
Valgus bending of the knee is promoted as an anterior cruciate ligament injury mechanism and is associated with a characteristic "footprint" of bone bruising. The hypothesis of this study was that during ligamentous failure caused by valgus bending of the knee, high tibiofemoral contact pressures induce acute osteochondral microdamage.
Identification of neoplastic cells in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by cytological analysis is the key diagnostic feature of leptomeningeal metastasis (LM). Because of the lack of sensitivity of this test, considerable efforts have been made to identify alternative diagnostic markers. Data from the literature suggest that measurement of tumor markers (TM) in CSF may be helpful for improving the diagnosis.
Cardiac troponins are considered the cornerstone for risk stratification and diagnosis of patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Following Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines, we assessed the analytical performances of the Pathfast (Mitsubishi, Japan) cTnI method.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human herpes virus that persists for life and is associated with several neoplasms. Haptoglobin (Hp), a polymorphic multifunctional plasma protein, exerts several immunomodulatory effects. The present study investigated the influence of the genetic polymorphism of Hp on EBV serology.
Peroxynitrite was hypothesized to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) through its various neurotoxic effects. Uric acid (UA) was shown to be a strong peroxynitrite scavenger.
There is accumulating evidence from the epidemiological field of telomere biology that telomere length plays an important role in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease. The RNA-dependent DNA polymerase, telomerase, is essential in regulating telomere length by acting as a reverse transcriptase. However, the relationship between telomerase activity and telomere length in cardiovascular disease is unclear. This is due, in part, to the paucity of information on the utility of a quantitative and routine assay for the determination of telomerase activity in circulating blood leukocytes.
The identification of very low-levels of minority sequences has interesting clinical and diagnostic applications. Among these, non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of genetic diseases on fetal DNA circulating in maternal plasma is an emerging field of application.
Measurement of C-peptide under standardized conditions provides a sensitive and well-established assessment of beta-cell function. We describe the analytical and clinical validation of an automated, microparticle-based chemiluminescent immunoassay method. The assay is designed to measure C-peptide in human serum, plasma and urine.
The analytical performance of the clinical chemistry module c 501 (cobas 6000 analyzer series) was evaluated for therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs of abuse testing using a spectrum of representative assays. Particular attention was paid to potential interactions between reagents using a simulated routine workload.
Ras homologous (Rho) family GTPases play a pivotal role in the regulation of numerous cellular functions associated with malignant transformation and metastasis. To evaluate the role of these GTPases in colorectal cancer, the mRNA expression levels in matched sets of tumor and non-tumor tissues from surgical specimens were analyzed. The relationship between the mRNA levels in tumor tissues to the clinicopathological features was also assessed.
Symmetric polyarthritis associated with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection frequently displays a clinical picture like rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) have high specificity for the diagnosis of RA. This study examined the frequency and clinical significance of anti-CCP antibodies in patients with chronic HCV infection, with and without manifestations of joint involvement, compared to RA patients.
We recently hypothesized that serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), within its reference range, predicts many diseases as a biomarker for background exposure to various xenobiotics. Even though normal serum GGT was associated with xenobiotics having very long half-lives (heavy metals, dioxin, or organochlorine pesticides), it was unknown whether GGT was associated with xenobiotics with short half-lives, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), well known carcinogens.
C-reactive protein (CRP) has emerged as an important predictor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). To facilitate clinical and public health interventions, CRP thresholds have been defined as follows: low-risk (&lt;1.0 mg/L), average-risk (1.0-3.0 mg/L), and high-risk (&gt;3.0 mg/L). However, these cut-off thresholds are based on distributions in Western populations, and do not distinguish between men and women.
2-[18F]-Fluoro-2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (FDG-PET) is a well established functional imaging modality for the initial staging of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) in patients from Western Europe and North America. The reliability of FDG-PET in populations of different ethnic groups is unclear, as all investigations published to date have come from developed countries.
Esophageal cancer staging has been performed through bronchoscopy, computerized tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET), and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). Whereas CT and PET scan provide assessments of distant metastasis, bronchoscopy importantly diagnoses tracheobronchial involvement, complementing chest CT findings. EUS is the most accurate examination for T and N staging but is technically limited when tumoral stenoses cannot be traversed. Endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) appears to present greater accuracy than EUS, CT, and bronchoscopy for assessing tracheobronchial wall involvement. EBUS has been recently associated with EUS for esophageal cancer staging in our unit.
Lung transplantation, which was initially described as an experimental method in 1963, has become a therapeutic option for patients with advanced pulmonary diseases due to improvements in organ conservation, surgical technique, immunosuppressive therapy and treatment of post-operative infections.
PCG is one of the main causes of blindness in children. There is a paucity of contemporary data on PCG in China.
In elderly patients with acute myocardial infarction, very little is known about the role of surgical myocardial revascularization and percutaneous coronary intervention (invasive therapies--IT), especially in the context of long-term outcomes after hospital discharge.
Mobile phones have become indispensable in the daily lives of men and women around the globe. As cell phone use has become more widespread, concerns have mounted regarding the potentially harmful effects of RF-EMR from these devices.
Failure of anastomotic healing is one of the major complications in colorectal surgery. Because histamine plays an important role in immune and inflammatory reactions, we demonstrate the effects of famotidine on the healing of colonic anastomosis in rats.
The present study was motivated by the need to systematically assess the research productivity of the Heart Institute (InCor), Medical School of the University of So Paulo, Brazil.
Inspired gases are routinely preconditioned by heat and moisture exchangers to provide a heat and water content similar to that provided normally by the nose and upper airways. The absolute humidity of air retrieved from and returned to the ventilated patient is an important measurable outcome of the heat and moisture exchangers' humidifying performance.
Future-proof EHR systems must be capable of interpreting information structures for medical concepts that were not available at the build-time of the system. The two-model approach of CEN 13606/openEHR using archetypes achieves this by separating generic clinical knowledge from domain-related knowledge. The presentation of this information can either itself be generic, or require design time awareness of the domain knowledge being employed.
We investigated the role of leptin and its interaction with endothelin 1 (ET-1) in fibronectin (FN) synthesis and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, two characteristic features of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Although insulin has been reported to have an anti-inflammatory effect, whether this effect is independent of its property to reduce blood glucose with insulin treatment in type 2 diabetes has not been investigated in detail. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the independent anti-inflammatory effect of insulin in patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes.
Fetuin-A, a liver-secreted phosphoprotein and physiological inhibitor of insulin receptor tyrosine kinase, is associated with insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome (MetS), and an increased risk for type 2 diabetes. However, studies on the modulation of circulating levels of fetuin-A are limited. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of niacin administration on serum total- and phosphorylated fetuin-A (phosphofetuin-A) concentrations in individuals with MetS and correlate with changes in serum lipids, insulin sensitivity, and markers of inflammation.
Diabetic patients exhibit an increased risk of saphenous graft occlusion after coronary bypass. Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are ubiquitous signalling proteins that are associated with vascular and neurological complication of diabetes. The aim of this study is to verify whether AGE levels may promote endothelial cell alterations responsible for vein graft failure.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells have the potential to produce unlimited numbers of surrogate insulin-producing cells for cell replacement therapy of type 1 diabetes mellitus. The impact of the in vivo environment on mouse ES cell differentiation towards insulin-producing cells was analysed morphologically after implantation.
To evaluate changes in pulse pressure (PP) and markers of cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy (CAN) according to duration of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM).
Previous in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that vitamin D could prevent pancreatic beta-cell destruction and reduce the incidence of autoimmune diabetes. In children with type 1 diabetes, vitamin D treatment produces moderate protective effects on residual beta-cell function and has proven to be safe. Therefore, we hypothesized that vitamin D might have protective effects on beta-cell function in patients with latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA), a form of slowly progressive autoimmune type 1 diabetes.
Increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, resulting in enhanced adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and serum glucocorticoid levels, has been described in patients with diabetes mellitus and in animal models of this disease; however, altered steroid production by adrenocortical cells could result from local changes triggered by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS), induced in turn by chronic hyperglycaemia. Experiments were designed (1) to analyse the effects of incubating murine adrenocortical cells in hyperglycaemic media on the generation of oxidative stress, on steroid synthesis and on its modulation by the activity of haeme oxygenase (HO); and (2) to evaluate the effect of antioxidant treatment on these parameters.
This article provides an overview of modern serological diagnostic testing for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) involving the detection of antibodies against citrullinated peptides/proteins (ACPA). Recommendations are also given for differential diagnosis and sequential testing in rheumatoid arthritis, with a view towards improving early diagnosis, so that irreparable joint damage can be avoided.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is more common in patients with atrial fibrillation (AFib). Recently, an additional association between central sleep apnea/Cheyne-Stokes respiration (CSA/CSR) and AFib has been described. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence and type of sleep-disordered breathing in patients with AFib and normal systolic left ventricular function.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an estrogenic contaminant of food and water associated with adverse developmental effects in laboratory animals. BPA has recently been linked to morbidity in adult humans, but studies of developmental effects in humans are methodologically more difficult. The ability to measure BPA in urine samples after long-term storage could aid in such studies. Because the half-life of BPA is &lt; 6h, a single measurement would be useful only if the environmental exposure is relatively constant over weeks or months. Our aims were to evaluate the stability of BPA in specimens after 22-24 years of storage and to measure within-person temporal variability in urinary BPA.
Reducing exposure to household dust inhalant allergens has been proposed as one strategy to reduce asthma.
Little is known about the population's exposure to radio frequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMF) in industrialized countries.
Information on the impact of genetic predisposition on metal toxicokinetics in the human body is limited. There is increasing evidence that certain genetic polymorphisms modify lead and mercury toxicokinetics. This called for analysis of further candidate genes.
Fine particles (PM(2.5)) are an important component of air pollution. Epidemiological studies have shown health effects due to ambient air particles, particularly allergies in children. Since the main difficulty is to determine exposure to such pollution, traffic air pollutant (TAP) dispersions models have been developed to improve the estimation of individual exposure levels. One such model, the ExTra index, has been validated for nitrogen oxide concentrations but not for other pollutants. The purpose of this study was to assess the validity of the ExTra index to assess PM(2.5) exposure.
The course of wound healing in high-risk patients with diabetes, particularly those with peripheral arterial disease and renal failure, is often prolonged and fraught with complications. Traditional methods of offloading the posterior foot or holding correction in place following diabetic foot reconstruction include various padded and bolstering devices.
Hydatidiform moles are gestational trophoblastic neoplasms that include both partial and complete moles. Apoptosis plays important roles in the normal placental morphogenesis and in the pathogenesis of the gestational trophoblastic neoplasia. TP53 is a tumor suppressor gene (pro-apoptotic molecule) that maintains genomic stability either by inducing cell-cycle arrest or apoptosis. BCL-2 is a proto-oncogene (a pro-survival molecule) that enhances growth and survival of cells. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) is a transmembrane glycoprotein, which can bind and be activated by various ligands. It stimulates cell division and differentiation.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a functional gastrointestinal disorder with a clinical diagnosis. The prevalence of this disorder and associated factors are unknown among the Colombian population. Nowadays, diagnosis of IBS is made by applying the Rome III criteria, and other disorders should be excluded before establishing the diagnosis.
Cardiac surgery places extensive stress on spouses who often are more worried than the patients themselves. Spouses can experience difficult and demanding situations when the partner becomes critically ill.
Chronic heart failure (HF) is associated with psychologic distress for patients and their spouses. Although research indicates that a patient's distress can influence the course of illness, less is known about possible effects of a spouse's distress on the patient or of a patient's distress on the health of the spouse.
Older adults have more difficulty with coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery than younger adults, partly because of depression and social isolation. During hospitalization, older adult patients undergoing CABG name nurses as their primary source of social support.
After a myocardial infarction (MI), many patients and their partners experience problems with marital and sexual life.
Oversedation masks neurologic changes and increases mortality/morbidity, whereas undersedation risks prolonged stress mobilization and patient injury. In situations such as deep sedation/analgesia, the Bispectral Index (BIS) has potential use as an adjunct to clinical assessment of sedation to help determine depth of sedation. Determining the correlation between clinical and BIS measures of sedation will help to determine the correct role of BIS in intensive care unit (ICU) practice settings.
Several long-term double-blind placebo controlled trials have shown prophylactic antidepressant therapy in unipolar depression. The goal of this work was to conduct a meta-analysis that would incorporate the most recent trials and evaluate their overall level of efficacy and relapse prevention over time.
This study investigates the interrater reliability and the accuracy of Manchester Triage (MTS) at emergency departments in Western Sweden.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is characterized by a Th2 polarized immune response and soluble HLA (sHLA) molecules play an immunomodulatory role in this response. Previously, it has been reported that these molecules are increased in sera of patients with pollen-induced allergic rhinitis studied outside the pollen season. To date, however, no study has investigated there in AR patients during the pollen season.
In kidney-transplant recipients, leflunomide has been shown to be efficient for treating polyomavirus BK virus-associated-nephropathy (PVAN). However, it is unknown whether the beneficial effect of leflunomide is related to it having a lower immunosuppressive effect than mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), or to its anti-viral activity. The aim of this study was to assess i) T-cell functions before and after conversion from MMF to leflunomide in kidney-transplant patients with PVAN, and ii) effects of leflunomide on PVAN outcome.
Psychology and addiction research have found that cigarette smokers react with subjective and automatic responses to stimuli associated with smoking. This study examines the association between the number of cigarettes smokers consume per month and their response to cues derived from peer and psychological distress.
Tobacco smoking continues to be a major preventable cause of death and disease and therefore tobacco control research is extremely important. However, research in this area is often hampered by a lack in funding and there is a need for scientometric techniques to display research efforts.
In many parts of the world, salt marshes play a key ecological role as the interface between the marine and the terrestrial environments. Salt marshes are also exceedingly important for public health as larval habitat for mosquitoes that are vectors of disease and significant biting pests. Although grid ditching and pesticides have been effective in salt marsh mosquito control, marsh degradation and other environmental considerations compel a different approach. Targeted habitat modification and biological control methods known as Open Marsh Water Management (OMWM) had been proposed as a viable alternative to marsh-wide physical alterations and chemical control. However, traditional larval sampling techniques may not adequately assess the impacts of marsh management on mosquito larvae. To assess the effectiveness of integrated OMWM and marsh restoration techniques for mosquito control, we analyzed the results of a 5-year OMWM/marsh restoration project to determine changes in mosquito larval production using GIS and geostatistical methods.
Agitation is common in people with dementia, is distressing to patients and stressful to their carers. Drugs used to treat the condition have the potential to cause particularly severe side effects in older people with dementia and have been associated with an increased death rate. Alternatives to drug treatment for agitation should be sought. The study aimed to assess the effects of bright light therapy on agitation and sleep in people with dementia.
This study investigates discrepancies between the confidence expressed by Korean elders in their balance and their actual physical performances according to sex and age. It also attempts to identify the factors responsible for such gaps or discrepancies.
The effects of traumatization among the elderly is a neglected topic in research and clinical settings. Forced displacement of civilians is one of the main traumatic features of modern armed conflict. Roughly 12 million German people were displaced in World War II (WWII) and to our knowledge there has been no representative study investigating the mental health outcomes of such trauma in the elderly population. The survey assessed whether current depression, anxiety, resilience and life satisfaction were significantly associated with forced displacement in WWII.
Normal aging and dementia are characterized by increased prevalence of sleep disorders and alterations of both sleep continuity and architecture. However, little is still known about the nature of sleep in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), which is presumably situated on the continuum from healthy aging to dementia. This unsystematic review summarizes the current literature on the prevalence and severity of sleep disturbances in MCI.
There is limited information describing memory clinics at a national level in Australia. The aim of this study was to gather information about the resourcing, practices and clinical diagnoses of Australian memory clinics.
Mental capacity has been little studied among older general hospital inpatients.
Older drivers are at a higher risk of being involved in a motor vehicle accident. However, on-road assessments of all older drivers are impractical, highlighting the need to screen for potentially unsafe drivers. This study undertook a meta-analysis of research examining the cognitive predictors of driving ability in older drivers in order to provide an evidence-based method for screening drivers.
Short-term residential care (SRC) has proved to be effective in reducing the burden on family caregivers of dementia patients. Nevertheless, little is known about the factors which influence its usage or the expectations of family caregivers regarding quality. In this paper we address the following questions: (i) which variables of the care situation, the caregivers and their attitudes act as predictors for the utilization of SRC facilities? (ii) What are the views of caregivers about the quality of SRC?
Increasing efforts are being devoted to the study of early onset dementia (EOD), namely dementia in persons under the age of 65. Until recently, it was assumed that dementia occurs primarily among people aged 65 and over. However, since the number of persons with EOD is increasing, its importance as a clinical and social problem is rising accordingly. The aim of the present paper is to summarize research in this area.
While the relationship of apolipoprotein E (APOE) to behavioral symptoms of dementia (BSD) has been studied in community-dwelling persons with AD, it has received limited attention within the nursing home (NH) population. The aim of this study was to examine the association between APOE genotype and BSD in NH residents using direct observation.
The Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle (AIBL) flagship study of aging aimed to recruit 1000 individuals aged over 60 to assist with prospective research into Alzheimer's disease (AD). This paper describes the recruitment of the cohort and gives information about the study methodology, baseline demography, diagnoses, medical comorbidities, medication use, and cognitive function of the participants.
The reported decline in elderly suicide rates in England may have been, in part, due to prompt and successful resuscitation of those who attempt suicide. This study examines the impact of prompt and successful resuscitation of those who attempt suicide on elderly suicide rates in England.
A third of family carers of people with dementia describe acting abusively in research studies, but far fewer cases of abuse are currently detected in clinical situations. This discrepancy may be explained by inadequate detection by health professionals, or disagreement regarding what constitutes elder abuse. This study was undertaken to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the revised Modified Conflict Tactics Scale (MCTS) for detecting clinically significant abuse.
The clinical presentations in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) overlap considerably with that of Alzheimer's disease (AD) despite different pathological processes. Autopsy studies have also shown that multiple brain pathology occurs frequently, even in cases with a single clinical diagnosis. We aimed to determine the frequency of clinical diagnosis of FTD and DLB and the underlying pathology in a well-characterized cohort of patients with a clinical diagnosis of probable or possible AD.
This retrospective chart review evaluated a comparison of the clinical profiles of older outpatients having mania and those with unipolar depression.
Populations worldwide are aging and the overall prevalence of dementia at death is now 30%. Since the contemporary social impact of a disease is indicated by the frequency of its newspaper coverage and since obituary notices illuminate conceptions of death, we hypothesized that obituary notices placed by families would reflect societal attitudes to aging and dementia.
The objective of this study was to examine the prevalence and short-term course of depression and anxiety in a sample of hospitalized, medically unwell older adults, using both a symptom measure and a diagnostic instrument.
Dementia is becoming a major public health problem in Latin America (LA), yet epidemiological information on dementia remains scarce in this region. This study analyzes data from epidemiological studies on the prevalence of dementia in LA and compares the prevalence of dementia and its causes across countries in LA and attempts to clarify differences from those of developed regions of the world.
Foreign home care services provided to frail older adults by individuals from the developing world are a global phenomenon. This study evaluated the challenges associated with live-in foreign home care from the perspective of older care recipients and their family members.
Electrolyte imbalances are frequently encountered in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and protocol-driven interventions may facilitate more timely and uniform care.
In the daily bedside routine of the intensive care, potentially hazardous interventions that lack evidence need critical consideration. Therefore we examined current practice and knowledge of basic principles of manual hyperinflation (MH) in intubated and mechanically ventilated patients among intensive care unit nurses in the Netherlands.
In response to inherent inadequacies in health information technologies, clinicians create their own tools for managing their information needs. Little is known about these clinician-designed information tools. With greater appreciation for why clinicians resort to these tools, health information technology designers can develop systems that better meet clinicians' needs and that can also support clinicians in design and use of their own information tools.
A multi-society document outlining appropriateness criteria for cardiac CT (CCT) was published in 2006. Since then, CCT has experienced rapid growth in technologic advances and clinical use. We sought to reassess opinion about the appropriate use of CCT among an international group of experts in the field.
Cardiac CT angiography (CCTA) has become a frequently used diagnostic tool in clinical practice, but concern remains about the radiation exposure. Because of the second x-ray acquisition system, dual-source CT systems might allow for high-pitch CT data acquisition and thus for examination of the whole heart during a single heart beat, with the potential for radiation dose reduction.
The assessment of coronary stents with present-generation 64-detector row computed tomography scanners that use filtered backprojection and operating at standard definition of 0.5-0.75 mm (standard definition, SDCT) is limited by imaging artifacts and noise.
The 320-row multidetector CT (MDCT) provides the capability for prospective electrocardiogram-gated cardiac CT angiography.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging plays an important role in the diagnosis and management of coronary artery disease (CAD). Prior studies have focused on the diagnostic performance of noninvasive modalities using angiographically significant stenoses as the reference standard. Recent trends in evidence-based medicine and increasing imaging utilization call for validation of diagnostic algorithms with well-designed, controlled trials with clinical outcome endpoints.
Coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) is not indicated in the setting of acute myocardial infarction in the emergency department (ED). Nonetheless, acute coronary syndromes may have atypical presentations, and CCTA may be inadvertently performed in this setting.
For the past decade, percentage of ideal body weight (%IBW) was recommended by European and US nutrition consensus reports as preferred clinical measure of nutritional status in children with cystic fibrosis (CF). We and others have demonstrated that the %IBW method underestimates the prevalence of nutritional failure in CF, but the underlying mechanism for this methodological flaw remains incompletely defined.
Adaptive aerosol delivery (AAD) nebuliser devices can reduce treatment times whilst enabling adherence to be monitored using inbuilt data logs. Using one such device, we have monitored nebulised antibiotic adherence in children with Cystic Fibrosis (CF).
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) in patients with CF is associated with frequent exacerbations and deterioration of lung function. Oral corticosteroids are standard therapy for ABPA and are associated with severe side effects. Monthly pulses of high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone (HDIVPM) are an effective therapy for autoimmune diseases with fewer side effects compared to oral prednisone, implicating its use for patients with CF who suffer from ABPA.
Extra-pulmonary complications of Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) infection in patients with cystic fibrosis are unusual. To the best of the authors' knowledge no case of pyomyositis secondary to Bcc infection has been reported previously.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) specific patient-derived and reported symptom tools are critical steps toward evaluating the outcomes of new therapies for CF.
Sexual and reproductive health (SRH) is increasingly relevant for men with CF. However, the extent of similarities or differences in SRH clinical practices across different centres or states is unknown as single clinic studies are not informative about variations in male preferences or clinical practices. We wished to determine the variability of male SRH knowledge and preferences, and clinical practices across different CF clinics.
The association between air pollution and cardiovascular diseases is well known, but previous studies only assessed mortality and hospital admissions in North America, Europe, and Northeast Asia. Few studies have been conducted in less-developed countries in regions with a tropical climate. This study evaluated whether short-term exposures to fine particulate matter (PM(10)) and ozone (O(3)) were associated with hospital visits for cardiovascular diseases (CVD; ICD-10th, I00-I99) in central Bangkok, Thailand.
Records in Western countries reveal that adult height has been increasing over the last 250 years. These height gains have been biologically associated with healthier childhoods, less illness, and longer life spans-a health-risk transition. To measure such progress in Thailand we studied height change over the last 3 decades.
Taiwan has the highest incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the world. The epidemiologic features of ESRD, however, have not been investigated. In this case-control study, we evaluated the risk of ESRD associated with a number of putative risk factors.
The perception of barriers to exercise is an important correlate of exercise participation. However, only a limited number of studies-mostly from Western countries-have attempted to describe the perceptions of barriers to exercise in specific population groups. This study examined the associations between sociodemographic attributes and perceived barriers to exercise in Japanese adults.
The aim of the present study was to determine subsites of gastric cancer in East Azerbaijan, Iran-a high incidence region for gastric cancer and Helicobacter pylori infection.
Among African-Americans, and in southern US states, the rates of stroke are high but the reported prevalences of atrial fibrillation (AF) are low. We hypothesized that the reported ethnic and regional distributions of AF are affected by the sensitivity of the methods that were used to detect AF in previous reports.
Hepatitis A vaccines have been highly effective in preventing hepatitis A. To investigate the epidemiology of hepatitis A in China after hepatitis A vaccine became available, we reviewed reported cases of hepatitis A and the use of hepatitis A vaccine in China during the period from 1990 through 2007.
Consumption of Plantago ovata may protect against colorectal cancer. To test this hypothesis, an ecological study was performed to determine mortality rates and distribution of colorectal cancer, and the consumption and distribution of P ovata, in different provinces in Spain. The putative association between P ovata consumption and mortality from colorectal cancer was then evaluated.
Coronary artery damage has been reported during catheter ablation procedures. Recently, linear ablation of thin left atrial tissue has been performed for atrial fibrillation.
Pulmonary veins isolation usually requires a multielectrode catheter for mapping in addition to the ablation catheter. We describe our experience with a new multipolar catheter designed for simultaneous mapping and ablation (MESH, Bard).
The efficacy of pulmonary vein isolation for the treatment of atrial fibrillation may be limited by the ability to make continuous and transmural lesions utilizing an ablation catheter. Gaps often persist between ablation lesions leading to failed electrical isolation and thus failed ablation. Recently, a deflectable fiberoptic endocardial visualization catheter has been introduced for use in imaging the coronary sinus using light in the visible spectrum. We utilize this catheter to visualize the endocardial surface and examine radiofrequency ablation lesions in porcine endocardium to determine the presence of gaps between radiofrequency lesions.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is a well-established therapy for patients with moderate-to-severe heart failure (HF), left ventricular dysfunction with an ejection fraction &lt;or= 35% and a QRS on the surface electrocardiogram of &gt;or=130 msec. Device optimization is often performed, adjusting the timing of RV and LV stimulation to produce a pacing sequence that yields the best global cardiac performance. However, no standard guidelines exist for optimization and many invasive and non-invasive techniques have been employed with mixed results. The aim of the present study was to determine whether there are any clinical predictors of the optimal V-V settings in patients implanted with CRT devices.
Intra-operative hypotension has been reported in cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) clinical trials but this phenomenon is not well characterized. The purpose of this study was to understand the frequency and determinants of intra-operative hypotension in patients undergoing defibrillator implantations.
There is a need to develop cost-effective, sensitive stroke assessment instruments. One approach is examining kinematic measures derived from goal-directed tasks, which can potentially be sensitive to the subtle changes in the stroke rehabilitation process. This paper presents the findings from a pilot study that uses a computer-assisted neurorehabilitation platform, interfaced with a conventional force-reflecting joystick, to examine the assessment capability of the system by various types of goal-directed tasks.
Cerebral radiation necrosis is a serious complication of radiation treatment for brain tumors. Therapeutic options include corticosteroids, anticoagulation and hyperbaric oxygen with limited efficacy. Bevacizumab, an antibody against VEGF had been reported to reduce edema in patients with suspected radiation necrosis. We retrospectively reviewed 6 patients with biopsy proven cerebral radiation necrosis treated with bevacizumab between 2006 and 2008.
Performance status (PS) scoring systems are tools of immense clinical importance in the management of patients with malignant disease but these tools are subjective and do not provide an objective evaluation of physical functioning. We conducted a pilot study to explore the feasibility and clinical utility of functional capacity testing to assess physical functioning in recurrent primary malignant glioma patients.
The prognosis of patients with glioblastoma is very poor with a mean survival of 10-12 months. Currently available treatment options are multimodal, which include surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. However, these have been shown to improve survival only marginally in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients. Methylated methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter is correlated with improved progression-free and overall survival in patients treated with alkylating agents. Strategies to overcome MGMT-mediated chemoresistance are being actively investigated.
Patients with brain tumors have varied degree of functional and psychological impairments because of factors relating to the tumor or to the treatment they receive. The functional independence measurement and functional activity measurement system (FIM-FAM) is an activity of daily living (ADL) scoring system that may be able to determine impairments in different domains objectively.
Delphi surveys have been effective at other hospitals to identify research priorities of nurses.
In Ireland, undergraduate students are supported by a named preceptor on clinical placement. A preceptor is a registered nurse who has completed a teaching, assessment and preceptorship programme. Preceptor preparation is costly in terms of facilitation and staff release/replacement. To date, in Ireland, research has not explored the effectiveness of preceptor preparation.
Similar to the implementation of Project 2000, this change in nurse education and employment will raise questions for employers and for higher education institutions. It will also raise questions about nurse recruitment numbers, workforce development, and the profiles of entrants to a changing workforce.
The assessment of practice in nursing and midwifery education and, other health professions has been the source of concern, criticism and research for a number of years with the conclusion that it might not be possible to develop an assessment tool that could encompass all aspects of professional practice.
Education of nurses in New Zealand has changed over the decades, from apprenticeship-style hospital-based training to academically prepared registered nurses. Newly graduated nurses require time to become confident within the clinical setting. To achieve this, a well-supported graduate nurse programme is required.
Within healthcare, succession planning has traditionally been considered for people at the executive director level and little research has been published with nurses working at the clinical level.
Changes to education and training in response to key strategic reviews undertaken by the Greater Manchester Strategic Health Authority (North West of England) established a need to develop nurses and allied health care practitioners to advanced practitioner level. This paper considers how employers, commissioners and educationalists worked together to produce a Master's level programme to prepare nurses and other health care practitioners for sustainable advanced practice roles.
The manner in which new ways of working affect the work or CPD (Continuing Professional Development) requirements of ward-based nurses or their community counterparts has received little attention. The aim of this study was to explore these issues with a diverse sample of practitioners.
The aim of the TNA was to inform future policy, educational provision and practice development and provide nurse managers with significant information on the perceived Continuing Professional Development (CPD) needs of the non-medical prescribers.
In the last decade there has been a growth in nursing support workforce numbers and their scope of practice. An important United Kingdom support worker development is the Assistant Practitioner role.
Profound changes in the way the health care systems are organized, managed and financed have resulted in the proliferation of new nursing and midwifery roles. However, the evidence base for these workforce developments is limited, especially with regard to health care providers' perspectives on cost effectiveness and patient outcomes.
As many nurses near retirement, every effort is needed to retain nurses and to ensure that work environments are attractive to new nurses. Experience in the profession and generational differences may affect how important work factors interact to affect work behaviours.
This paper describes the implementation of the NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement Productive Ward - releasing time to care programme. It will discuss the benefits and key successes and provides advice for those wishing to implement the programme. In Lord Darzi's Next Stage Review, he advocates an ambitious vision of patient centred - clinician led, locally driven NHS. The Releasing Time to Care programme is a unique opportunity for everyone working within the NHS to improve effectiveness, safety and reliability of the services we provide. Whilst being situated within a National Health Service policy environment learning from this work can be translated nationally and internationally, as the principles underpin the provision of high quality care.
Highly selective inhibitors of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5I) have been commercially available for over a decade. Our knowledge of these drugs continues to expand.
Nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity (NPTR, or, more simply, NPT) studies, with or without the help of a recording computer (Rigiscan), have been traditionally positioned at the head of several erectile dysfunction (ED) diagnostic flowcharts with the aim to distinguish between psychogenic and organic etiology. Shall we continue to consider these tools as a diagnostic gold standard in ED diagnosis?
Although many cross-sectional studies have been conducted on the association between lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and erectile dysfunction (ED), no studies were prospective in Asia. Aim. The relationship between LUTS and ED is examined using a prospective cohort of 2000 Chinese men.
Despite a high prevalence of hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD), no medical treatment is available in the United States for this condition.
Immunophilin ligands function by binding to receptor proteins such as FK506 binding proteins (FKBPs). FKBPs are studied for their roles in neuroprotection.
While vibrating products have been recommended by clinicians for the treatment of male sexual dysfunctions, knowledge is lacking with regard to the prevalence of vibrator use among men in the United States, the characteristics of men who use vibrators, and whether there are relations between vibrator use and sexual function among men.
Although the efficacy of testosterone for the treatment of hypoactive sexual desire disorder is well established, the effect of testosterone therapy on breast cancer risk remains uncertain.
There is a dearth of scientific data on anal intercourse in heterosexual relationships. Likewise, anal sex within marital relationships has yet to be fully explored.
A strong association between cardiovascular risk factors and erectile dysfunction (ED) was suggested. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is the gold standard for surgical myocardial revascularization.
Although vibrators are commonly recommended by clinicians as adjunct to treatment for female sexual dysfunction, and for sexual enhancement, little is known about their prevalence or correlates of use.
Research suggests that increased tension in the pelvic floor muscles of women with provoked vestibulodynia (PVD, the most common form of chronic vulvar pain) may play an important role in maintaining and exacerbating their pain. However, no prospective studies of pelvic floor physical therapy (PFPT) for PVD have been carried out.
Some sex therapists and educators assume that many sexual behaviors provide comparable sexual satisfaction. Evidence is required to determine whether sexual behaviors differ in their associations with both sexual satisfaction and satisfaction with other aspects of life.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is common among men with an elevated body mass index (BMI). However, a high waist circumference (WC) and low levels of physical activity may predict ED independently of BMI.
Several phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors are commercially available for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED). Development of the first once-daily alternative dosing regimen with a PDE5 inhibitor was motivated by the behavioral complexities associated with sexual intimacy.
Stimulation of the cavernous nerve elicits increases in intracavernosal pressure (ICP) and visible penile erection (VPE) in rats. The observed penile erection can be characterized by the change in ICP and the ratio of ICP over blood pressure (BP; systemic blood pressure).
In middle-aged men, the associations between long-term depressive symptoms and circulating testosterone levels are poorly known, although it is known that testosterone levels decrease with age.
Testicular germ cell cancer (TGCC) patients may be at risk of developing sexual dysfunction after treatment.
Up to 30% of women suffer from female orgasmic disorder (FOD)-the second most common type of female sexual dysfunction. FOD has been acknowledged to be multifactorial and recent research has implicated the importance of psychosocial risk factors.
Penile fracture is the rupture of the tunica of one or both corpora cavernosa due to direct blunt trauma to the erected penis. Partial or complete rupture of the urethra or injury to the deep dorsal vein may accompany penile fracture.
Male sexual dysfunction is a common complication of diabetes (DM), but the relative impact of erectile dysfunction (ED), orgasmic dysfunction (OD), and/or decreased libido (DL) on global sexual bother has not been assessed.
In our male animal models, hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) displayed significant vasodilatory and smooth muscle relaxant effects suggestive of an endogenous physiological role in erectile process.
Recurrent ischemic priapism still remains a serious and difficult to treat complication of certain hematological disorders. Elucidation of the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms and application of new effective prophylactic treatments are needed.
Seventy percent to 90% of patients with heart failure (HF) report erectile problems. There are no published data on whether erectile dysfunction (ED) and peripheral vascular disease (PVD) correlate with mortality in HF patients. Also, little is known regarding the impact of HF etiology on mortality in patients with ED.
Rupture of penile prosthesis reservoir into the bladder is an unusual and unexpected occurrence after prosthesis component replacement for malfunction. Scant literature exists describing a pathophysiology, diagnosis, and repair with device salvage.
Endothelial cell-to-cell junctions are crucial for vascular formation, networking, and remodeling of blood vessels as well as for inducing and integrating intracellular signals.
External beam radiotherapy for prostate cancer leads to erectile dysfunction in 36%-43% of patients. The underlying mechanism is largely unknown, although some clinical studies suggest that the arterial supply to the corpora cavernosa is responsible. Two animal experimental studies reported on the effects of a single fraction of prostate irradiation on the penile structures. However, irradiation in multiple fractions is more representative of the actual clinical treatment.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) combined with brain source localization algorithms is becoming a powerful tool in the neuroimaging study of human cerebral functions.
Despite the fact that there is minimal evidence-based data supporting it, the concept of pharmacological penile rehabilitation following radical prostatectomy (RP) is receiving great attention.
Anecdotal reports from patients with smell loss provided the basic motivation for the present study on sexual dysfunction among patients with olfactory dysfunction. The aim of the present study was to investigate the sexual appetite and the subject's depression in regard to olfactory function.
Diabetic patients are at high risk of having erectile dysfunction (ED), but their doctors rarely pay attention to this association.
Penile girth augmentation is a domain of extensive controversy and debate. A variety of methods is available for the choice of the surgeon including dermal-fat grafts and flaps. The need for a simple procedure with minimal donor site has lead to proposing injection therapy for penile augmentation, whether by fat or synthetic materials.
The optimal surgical technique for lobectomy in lung cancer is not well defined. Proponents of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) hypothesize that less trauma leads to quicker recovery, whereas those who advocate thoracotomy claim it as an oncologically superior procedure. However, a well-balanced comparison of the two procedures is lacking in the literature.
The intra-aortic balloon pump is used worldwide as an anti-ischemic strategy. However, little is known about the modifications of the graft flowmetry during use of intra-aortic balloon pump.
A minimally invasive surgery for treatment of atrial fibrillation was developed with bilateral pulmonary vein isolation, mapping, and ablation of the ganglionic plexi and excision of the left atrial appendage. A prospective multicenter registry was created to evaluate the outcomes.
Several inflammatory mediators such as vascular endothelial growth factor and hepatocyte growth factor are known to play a critical role in the regulation of vascular permeability and angiogenesis. We studied the serum levels of growth factors and gene expression profiles of genes involved in growth factor signaling in the peripheral blood of patients with and patients without diabetes following cardiopulmonary bypass and cardioplegic arrest.
The crucial role of cigarette smoking in the development of pneumothorax is unclear because nonsmokers can also develop primary spontaneous pneumothorax. The purpose of this study was to clarify the pathophysiologic effects of cigarette smoking and its clinical correlations in primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
The A subunit of factor XIII (FXIII-A) functions as an intracellular transglutaminase (TG) in the megakaryocyte/platelet lineage, where it probably participates in the cytoskeletal remodeling associated with cell activation. However, so far, the precise role of cellular FXIII (cFXIII) and the functional consequences of its absence in FXIII-A-deficient patients are unknown.
Peripheral serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is transported by platelets and released upon stimulation. In the platelet cytoplasm, 5-HT is transamidated to small GTPases, promoting alpha-granule release and primary hemostasis.
We have recently reported a novel mutation in the beta3 subunit of the platelet fibrinogen receptor (alpha(IIb)beta3D723H) identified in a patient with dominantly inherited macrothrombocytopenia, and we have shown that this mutation promotes a new phenotype in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, characterized by fibrinogen-dependent, microtubule-driven proplatelet-like cell extensions.
Warfarin reversal is a common clinical situation. This is commonly performed using vitamin K and, depending on the urgency, fresh frozen plasma (FFP), prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs), or activated factor VII. Even though PCCs are widely used, the ideal dosing regimen is far from established.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a severe complication of heparin therapy that can be associated with arterial or venous thrombosis and is caused by antibodies against platelet factor 4 (PF4)-heparin complex. Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) have been reported with positive tests for PF4-heparin complex antibodies by antigen assay. Whether such patients can be treated with heparin is a dilemma.
L-asparaginase (L-ASP) treatment of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia causes a severe antithrombin deficiency by intracellular retention of this serpin within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of hepatic cells, and a subsequent risk of thrombosis. Interestingly, co-administration of dexamethasone with L-ASP seems to reduce the risk of thrombosis.
Tissue factor (TF) is present in blood in various forms, including small membrane vesicles called microparticles (MPs). Elevated levels of these MPs appear to play a role in the pathogenesis of thrombosis in a variety of diseases, including sepsis.
Antiphospholipid antibodies (aPLA) and lupus anticoagulant (LAC) were shown to precipitate thromboembolic events. Their association with ischemic stroke remains to be seen.
The biochemical mechanisms causing dilutional coagulopathy following infusion of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 (HES) are not known in detail.
von Willebrand factor (VWF) has a role in both hemostasis and thrombosis. Platelets adhere to damaged arteries by interactions between the VWF A1-domain and glycoprotein Ib receptors under conditions of high shear. This initial platelet binding event stimulates platelet activation, recruitment, and activation of the clotting cascade, promoting thrombus formation.
Type IIH von Willebrand disease was reported 20 years ago as a novel variant characterized by the loss of the largest multimers in plasma and platelets and absence of the typical triplet structure.
Mouse tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) is produced in three alternatively spliced isoforms that differ in domain structure and mechanism for cell surface binding. Tissue expression of TFPI isoforms in mice was characterized as an initial step for identification of their physiological functions.
von Willebrand factor (VWF) is composed of a series of multimers, the sizes of which are regulated by the plasma metalloprotease ADAMTS13.
Syk is a key mediator of signaling pathways downstream of several platelet surface receptors including GPVI/FcRgamma collagen receptor, the C-type lectin receptor CLEC-2, and integrin alphaIIbbeta3. A recent study identified the novel small molecule R406 as a selective inhibitor of Syk.
Platelet adhesion promoted by integrin alpha2beta1 induces integrin alpha(IIb)beta3 activation through the phospholipase C (PLC)-dependent stimulation of the small GTPase Rap1b.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a widely used anticancer drug for solid tumors and hematologic malignancy, but its active use is hampered by serious adverse effects, including thrombocytopenia. Although bone marrow toxicity of DOX has been suggested to be the sole mechanism underlying the reduced platelet counts, the direct effects of DOX on platelets have never been examined.
Unlike most antihyperglycaemic drugs, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists have a glucose-dependent action and promote weight loss. We compared the efficacy and safety of liraglutide, a human GLP-1 analogue, with exenatide, an exendin-based GLP-1 receptor agonist.
Novo Nordisk A/S.
Rivaroxaban is an oral direct factor Xa inhibitor that has been effective in prevention of venous thromboembolism in patients undergoing elective orthopaedic surgery. However, its use after acute coronary syndromes has not been investigated. In this setting, we assessed the safety and efficacy of rivaroxaban and aimed to select the most favourable dose and dosing regimen.
Johnson &amp; Johnson Pharmaceutical Research &amp; Development and Bayer Healthcare AG.
Placental-site trophoblastic tumours are a rare form of gestational trophoblastic disease and consequently information about optimum management or prognostic factors is restricted. We aimed to assess the long-term outcome of stage-adapted management by surgery, chemotherapy, or both for patients with the disorder.
National Commissioning Group.
Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT; sleeping sickness) caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense is a fatal disease. Current treatment options for patients with second-stage disease are toxic, ineffective, or impractical. We assessed the efficacy and safety of nifurtimox-eflornithine combination therapy (NECT) for second-stage disease compared with the standard eflornithine regimen.
Mdecins Sans Frontires (Dutch section), Mdecins Sans Frontires International, and the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative.
Case vignettes have been validated as an efficient tool for assessing the quality of clinical practices, and have been used in a variety of medical settings. However, their use in the field of hematology has not been tested.
Troponin-I (cTp-I) is considered a sensitive biomarker of myocardial injury in acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PE) with prognosis implications, though abnormal levels vary among reports.
Large segmental defects of the spine may result from tumor resection as well as infection. The surrounding soft tissue in these situations is often compromised due to radiation exposure or infection. In these situations, in which conventional bone grafting has often failed, we have found vascularized fibular grafts an effective method of achieving bony union. The purpose of this study was to review the results of vascularized bone grafting for complex spinal reconstruction using free fibular transfer.
Herein, we present our latest protocol of following three operative stages for complete phalloplasty, applied in 37 female-to-male transsexuals: first, mastectomy, ovariohysterectomy, urethral lengthening, vaginectomy, colpocleisis, and neourethra prelamination; second, neophallus creation with free sensate osteofasciocutaneous fibula (n = 31) or radial forearm (n = 6) flap; and third, urethral connection, neoscrotum formation, and testicle prosthesis implantation.
A 57-year-old African American man presented to a tertiary care center with a 6-month history of fatigue and worsening abdominal pain. He had lost 9.1 kg in weight in the 3 months leading up to presentation, and described subjective fevers and night sweats for 1 month with a nonproductive cough and blurred vision for several weeks before presentation. He had chronic renal insufficiency, sleep apnea, hypertension, and peripheral vascular disease.
The chicken is capable of adaptive locomotor behavior within hours after hatching, yet little is known of the processes leading to this precocious skill. During the final week of incubation, chick embryos produce distinct repetitive limb movements that until recently had not been investigated. In this study we examined the leg muscle patterns at 3 time points as development of these spontaneous movements unfolds to determine if they exhibit attributes of locomotion reported in hatchlings. We also sought to determine whether the deeply flexed posture and movement constraint imposed by the shell wall modulate the muscle patterns.
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae, the causative agent of porcine contagious pleuropneumonia, is an important pathogen of swine throughout the world. It must rapidly overcome the innate pulmonary immune defenses of the pig to cause disease. To better understand this process, the objective of this study was to identify genes that are differentially expressed in a medium that mimics the lung environment early in the infection process.
Outside pregnancy, arterial pulse wave analysis provides valuable information in hypertension and vascular disease. Studies in pregnancy using this technique show that vascular stiffness is raised in women with established pre-eclampsia. We aimed to establish normal ranges for parameters of pulse wave analysis in normal pregnancy and to compare different ethnic groups.
This study examines the structural features and phylogeny of the alpha subunits of 69 full-length NifD (MoFe subunit), VnfD (VFe subunit), and AnfD (FeFe subunit) sequences.
The ErbB receptor tyrosine kinases and nucleolin are major contributors to malignant transformation. Recently we have found that cell-surface ErbB receptors interact with nucleolin via their cytoplasmic tail. Overexpression of ErbB1 and nucleolin leads to receptor phosphorylation, dimerization and anchorage independent growth.
Blood agar is used for the identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing of many bacterial pathogens. In the developing world, microbiologists use human blood agar because of the high cost and inhospitable conditions for raising wool sheep or horses to supply blood. Many pathogens either fail to grow entirely or exhibit morphologies and hemolytic patterns on human blood agar that confound colony recognition. Furthermore, human blood can be hazardous to handle due to HIV and hepatitis. This study investigated whether blood from hair sheep, a hardy, low-maintenance variety of sheep adapted for hot climates, was suitable for routine clinical microbiology studies.
The pH and voltage-regulated Slo3 K(+) channel, a homologue of the Ca(2+)- and voltage-regulated Slo1 K(+) channel, is thought to be primarily expressed in sperm, but the properties of Slo3 studied in heterologous systems differ somewhat from the native sperm KSper pH-regulated current. There is the possibility that critical partners that regulate Slo3 function remain unidentified. The extensive amino acid identity between Slo3 and Slo1 suggests that auxiliary beta subunits regulating Slo1 channels might coassemble with and modulate Slo3 channels. Four distinct beta subunits composing the KCNMB family are known to regulate the function and expression of Slo1 Channels.
Previous studies specifically focused on the immunosuppressive therapy (IST) of children with moderate aplastic anemia (MAA) are rare. The aim of this study was to evaluate the advantage of using antithymocyte globulin (ATG) in the IST and its outcome of children with MAA.
Extremities are peculiar sites of origin for rhabdomyosarcomas (RMS) and are usually associated with an unfavorable outcome.
Experience with the use of allogeneic hemopoietic stem transplantation (AHSCT) in pediatric myelodisplastic syndrome (MDS) in Spain is reviewed.
The effect and possible timing of nonradiolabeled somatostatin analogue octreotide are still not determined in the treatment of medulloblastoma, while the presence of somatostatin receptor type-2 (SSTR2) is proved in the majority of medulloblastoma by several authors.
Preterm and low-birth-weight infants have an increased risk of sensorineural hearing loss. Brainstem auditory-evoked potentials (BAEP) are an effective method to detect subtle deficits in impulse conduction in the auditory pathway. Abnormalities on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) have been shown to be associated with perinatal white-matter injury and reduced fractional anisotropy (FA) has been reported in patients with sensorineural hearing loss.
Interventional radiology (IR) procedures in very low birth-weight (VLBW) infants (&lt;1.5 kg) are challenging due to size, immaturity, comorbidities and lack of devices of suitable size. Infants are moved from the neonatal intensive care unit to the IR suite, further exposing them to risk. Our purpose was to review our experience of interventional procedures in VLBW infants, specifically complications and potential risks.
A transient hepatic attenuation difference (THAD) is a hepatic perfusion anomaly seen on contrast-enhanced CT scans caused by an alteration in the dual blood supply of the liver. Although THADs have been described in adolescents and adults, they have not previously been described in neonates.
Malignant rhabdoid tumours (RT) are increasingly recognized in young children, probably as a consequence of advances in accurate histological diagnosis rather than a true increase in frequency. Although typically presenting as renal tumours in infancy, extrarenal tumours outside the central nervous system (CNS) in children less than 12 months of age are now well recognized, but previous literature on their imaging features is very limited.
The association between spinal cord anomalies and imperforate anus is well recognized. Until now, the incidence of tethered cord has been assumed to be higher in patients with high-type imperforate anus. However, recent reports suggest that tethered cord is as common in patients with a low lesion as in those with a high lesion.
Examinations using ionizing radiation are frequently used in the evaluation of disease activity in children affected by idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Vallecular cysts are an unusual cause of congenital stridor.
Neonatal hemochromatosis is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by excessive iron deposition within the liver leading to hepatic failure and portal hypertension.
Allergies to drugs are a major cause for hospitalisation and inappropriate prescriptions to patients. However, allergies can be prevented if the patient's history of drug allergy is known and coded.
The A1 allele of the TaqIA polymorphism (rs1800497) in the dopamine D2 receptor gene (DRD2) has been associated with substance use. It is unclear whether this allele is a marker for an underlying propensity for specifically developing a substance use disorder, or more generally to developing an externalizing psychiatric disorder highly correlated with substance use. It is also possible that DRD2 is related to a behavioral phenotype common to externalizing disorders and substance use.
Binge drinking may lead to brain damage. The aim of the present study was to compare the cognitive abilities of binge and non-binge drinkers in tasks which test functions linked to discrete areas of the prefrontal cortex.
Achondroplasia is one of the most common forms of short limb dwarfism. It is usually suspected on third trimester routine ultrasound because of very shortened long bones. We have described two new prenatal sonographic signs of achondroplasia visible at the proximal femoral metaphysis.
Cancer diagnosis may adversely affect employment status. Our aim was to investigate whether cancer diagnosis effects employment status by comparing employment status changes in cancer patients with to that of cancer-free workers over a 5-6-year period.
Histamine H3 receptor functions as a presynaptic auto- and hetero-receptor on histaminergic and non-histaminergic neurons in the brain regulating the synaptic release of numerous neurotransmitters. Therefore, the ligands for this receptor have been proposed to be of therapeutic interest for the treatment of various neuropsychiatric disorders. At present, however, the psychopharmacological profiles of H3 ligands, particularly H3 agonists, have not been extensively studied.
The transition from infrequent and controlled cocaine use to dependence may involve enduring changes in neurobiology as a consequence of persistent drug use.
Psychostimulant abuse has been linked to impairments in cost-benefit decision making.
The majority of individuals who suffer an episode of depression go on to experience recurrences. We have proposed, based upon the observation that reducing serotonin via acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) is more likely to induce negative mood in recovered depressed individuals than never depressed individuals, that this may be because associations form between negative mood and reduced serotonin during an episode of depression (Robinson and Sahakian, Psychol Med 38:315-318, 2008b). Such associations would mean that subsequent reductions in serotonin are more likely to provoke depressed mood and hence trigger an episode of depression.
Aripiprazole acts as a partial agonist at dopamine D2 and D3 and serotonin 1A receptors and as an antagonist at serotonin 2A receptors (HTR2A). Since aripiprazole acts as an antagonist at HTR2A, genetic variants of HTR2A may be important in explaining variability in response to aripiprazole.
In major depression, prefrontal regulation of limbic brain areas may be a key mechanism that is impaired during the processing of affective information. This prefrontal-limbic interaction has been shown to be modulated by serotonin (5-HTT) genotype, indicating a higher risk for major depressive disorder (MDD) with increasing number of 5-HTT low-expression alleles.
The pharmacological treatment of depression in children and adolescents is different from that of adults due to the lack of efficacy of certain antidepressants in the pediatric age group. Our current understanding of why these differences occur is very limited.
The endocannabinoid anandamide, in addition to activating cannabinoid type 1 receptors (CB1), may act as an agonist at transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) channels. In the periaqueductal gray, CB1 activation inhibits, whereas TRPV1 increases, anxiety-like behavior. In the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), another brain region related to defensive responses, CB1 activation induces anxiolytic-like effects. However, a possible involvement of TRPV1 is still unclear.
Experimental research is needed in investigating how early smoking abstinence affects relapse risk.
Anhedonia, or hyposensitivity to normally pleasurable stimuli, is a cardinal symptom of depression. As such, reward circuitry may comprise a substrate with relevance to this symptom of depression.
The stop-signal paradigm measures the ability to stop a motor response after its execution has been initiated. Impairments in inhibiting inappropriate behavior and prolonged stop-signal reaction times (SSRTs) are characteristic of several psychiatric disorders, most notably attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder. While there is relative consensus regarding the anatomical substrates of behavioral inhibition, the neurochemical imbalance responsible for the deficits in stopping displayed by impulsive individuals is still a matter of debate.
Cannabis preparations are the most widely consumed illicit drugs, and their use typically begins in adolescence. The prevalence of cannabis abuse is higher in patients with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) than in the general population, yet, knowledge about the motivational properties of cannabinoids in animal models of ADHD are lacking.
The interoceptive and reinforcing effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) are similar to those of psychostimulants, but the role of dopamine in the behavioral effects of MDMA is not well documented, especially in primates.
Little attention has been paid to the relative equivalence of behavioural effects of NMDA receptor antagonists in rodents, with different compounds often used interchangeably to "model" aspects of schizophrenia in preclinical studies.
Revised World Health Organization recommendations seek to increase HIV testing. We assessed the need for expanded testing in South Africa by examining current testing and treatment trends among a high prevalence population.
Before restoration of carious teeth, it is necessary to ablate any infected dentin that cannot be remineralized due to softening by the invading caries. A correlation has been suggested between the ablation efficiency of the Er:YAG laser and the progression of caries in dentin. To the best of our knowledge, no studies have investigated the relationship between degree of demineralization by dentinal caries and ablation rate with the Er:YAG laser.
Repeated botulinum toxin type A (BoNTA) treatment typifies clinical practice. The long-term safety and efficacy should be demonstrated in diverse populations.
In order to become more patient focused, the City Hospitals Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust developed the 'patient journey' approach, which was a 'comprehensive practice development/service improvement' model.
Quantitative testing of liver function (QTLF) is one way to show the efficacy of antiviral treatment of Hepatitis C. Data on liver function in patients with chronic Hepatitis C during antiviral therapy are lacking. We therefore investigated if and to what extent antiviral therapy influenced quantitative testing of liver function (QTLF).
Neonatal sepsis is the most serious problem in neonatal intensive care, resulting in significant morbidity and mortality. We evaluated the causative pathogen, drug sensitivity, hematological parameters, clinical course and mortality rate of neonatal sepsis in a Taiwanese medical center and compared our results to those of previous studies conducted in Taiwan.
Scrub typhus is a clinically important endemic disease in Taiwan. The aims of this study were to analyze the clinical manifestations, laboratory data and complications of pediatric scrub typhus in eastern Taiwan.
Several progeroid disorders presenting a specific "old-man" appearance since birth or childhood have been described. Here, five patients with a history of severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation and pseudohydrocephaloid cranium noted after birth that were suggestive of neonatal progeroid syndrome (NPS) or Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome are reported. We discuss the natural course of the syndrome.
Multiple packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusions in very low birth weight (VLBW) prematurity have been suggested to be a risk factor for the development of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) or for chronic lung disease (CLD). The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of PRBC transfusions on the outcome of VLBW prematurity.
Sonography is used to diagnose infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, but Little information is available about the appearance of postoperative sonographs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the morphology of the pylorus in association with an obstruction before and after pyloromyotomy.
Autotransplantation of isolated Langerhans islets is regarded as the only way to prevent iatrogenic diabetes in patients who had been scheduled for pancreatectomy due to painful chronic pancreatitis. A sufficient number of Langerhans islets capable of secretory activity need to be transplanted to maintain normoglycemia after the surgical procedure. In order to optimize all stages, including collection, storage, isolation and transplantation of pancreatic islets, a reproducible animal-based experimental model should be developed before a new method is introduced into clinical practice.
Dialysis fluid containing icodextrin is used in patients on peritoneal dialysis (PD) because of its significant ultrafiltration properties. The use of the fluid in treating patients with congestive heart failure resistant to diuretics has also been reported.
The discovery of a cure for diabetes is a dream of many medical researchers. The transplantation of Langerhans islets is a potential treatment of choice for patients with type 1 diabetes as a source of endogenous insulin for the recipient.
Spontaneous regression of small basal cell carcinoma has been reported. For giant basal cell carcinoma, however, no spontaneous regression has been described to date.
Use of statins has been associated with reduced risk, progression and mortality of some tumors, including prostate cancer (CaP). According to recent Studies, long-term treatment with statins significantly reduces the risk of PC and also confers a protective effect against advanced or aggressive CaP. However, there is no conclusive data regarding the potential effect on patients diagnosed with clinically localized CaP undergoing radical treatment.
The DHEA widely used for the control of the symptoms associated with the aging, has been an object of numerous clinical essays with discordant results as for its efficiency.
Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) assessment on female with urinary incontinence (UI) may be a useful indicator in the management of early treatment depending on the sort of UI which is dominant: Stress UI or Urge UI. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the HRQoL of female with mixed UI, comparing the impact of symptoms of Urge UI and Stress UI.
Urolithiasis is a metabolic disorder with a tendency to relapse. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of metabolic abnormalities in patients at high risk and the impact of sex and age.
In closed traumatic bladder ruptures, a surgical treatment of the intraperitoneal rupture, and a conservative approach to the extraperitoneal one, with bladder catheter, antibiotics and confirmation of bladder wound closure after two to three weeks-, was recommended. Only recently, attention was paid to the importance of the presence of bone fragments of the pelvic fractures, that in the vecinity of a bladder catheter or urinary infection may give raise to either severe pelvic infection or permanent urinary fistula.
We aimed to assess the current trends in diathermy use as well as the presence or absence of formal diathermy training amongst higher surgical trainees (HSTs) in the UK.
Although there is much consensus, certain controversies still exist regarding the pathology of Fournier's gangrene. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of the disease in the catchment area of the three teaching hospitals, to identify the systemic predisposing factors and local aetiological factors, and to assess the recommended role of aggressive surgical debridement as a part of treatment.
Debate regarding the use of radiotherapy (RT) after breast conserving surgery is currently one of the most controversial areas in breast cancer management. In our centre we prefer to avoid RT, which is not without its own risks, as a primary treatment modality in the majority of cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) that are amenable to wide local excision.
The use of video capsule endoscopy (VCE) started in late 2001 when it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Since then, we are able to visualize small bowel mucosa with a minimally invasive technique, very comfortable for patients, with very few complications and without the need of hospitalization. At Dubrava University Hospital, we have been using VCE since October 2006, and by February 2008 we examined 30 patients.
Cardiovascular drugs account for 40% of total outpatient drug utilization in the City of Zagreb. Among them, utilization of the group of hypolipemics showed greatest rise from 2001 to 2006.
Management of patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) can exert a substantial burden upon caregivers. As new modes of treatment administration are developed, it is important to assess caregiver satisfaction and preference in a standardized manner. This study describes the development of the Alzheimer's Disease Caregiver Preference Questionnaire (ADCPQ) to assess AD caregivers' satisfaction with and preference for patch or capsule treatments in AD patients.
This study was designed to compare the efficacy of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% with an artificial tear solution for the treatment of rosacea-associated eyelid and corneal pathology.
The aim of the present study was to compare the appearance of the normal male puborectalis using transrectal ultrasound with anatomy examinations to enhance the understanding of the relationship of the prostate to the adjacent pelvic floor. This information may help prevent damage to the puborectalis during transperineal ultrasound-guided biopsies and interventional therapies.
Ketorolac 0.4% administered four times daily (q.i.d.) has long been used safely and effectively for the alleviation of ocular inflamation and pain and the prevention of intraoperative miosis in patients undergoing cataract surgery. Bromfenac ophthalmic solution 0.09% was recently developed as an ocular anti-inflammatory drug with a twice-daily (b.i.d.) dosing regimen. This study was designed to evaluate if b.i.d. dosing with bromfenac 0.09%, in comparison with q.i.d. dosing with ketorolac 0.4%, provides adequate trough nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug levels that were effective enough to reduce aqueous prostaglandin (PG) E(2) levels of patients after cataract surgery toward the end of its dosing cycle.
In this study, we examined the effects of the alpha-glucosidase inhibitors acarbose and voglibose on postprandial plasma glucose and serum triglyceride levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Microalbuminuria in diabetes is strongly predictive of nephropathy, end-stage renal disease, and premature cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Effective preventive therapies are therefore a clinical priority.
Angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) blunt progression of advanced diabetic nephropathy, but their long-term renal effects in other patients are not clear.
Concern is growing about missed test results, but data assessing their effect on patient safety are limited.
Adverse primary care work conditions could lead to a reduction in the primary care workforce and lower-quality patient care.
Impaired visual acuity is common in older adults. Screening for impaired visual acuity could lead to interventions to improve vision, function, and quality of life.
Insomnia is a major health problem with significant psychological, health, and economic consequences. However, availability of one of the most effective insomnia treatments, cognitive behavioral therapy, is significantly limited. The Internet may be a key conduit for delivering this intervention.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00328250.
Identification of individuals at high risk of developing psychosis has relied on prodromal symptomatology. Recently, machine learning algorithms have been successfully used for magnetic resonance imaging-based diagnostic classification of neuropsychiatric patient populations.
Excess mortality from heart disease is observed in patients with severe mental disorder. This excess mortality may be rooted in adverse effects of pharmacological or psychotropic treatment, lifestyle factors, or inadequate somatic care.
Indirect evidence suggests that the glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) gene might be implicated in major depressive disorder (MDD).
We evaluated 15 GSK3beta single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to test for associations with regional gray matter (GM) volume differences in patients with recurrent MDD. We then used the defined regions of interest based on significant associations to test for MDD x genotype interactions by including a matched control group without any psychiatric disorder, including MDD.
Medication resistance is the leading indication for use of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in major depression. The practice of stopping antidepressant medications prior to ECT derived from studies in the 1960s and 1970s in nonresistant samples. There is also continuing controversy regarding the relative efficacy and adverse effects of right unilateral and bilateral ECT.
If family history is associated with clinical features that are thought to index seriousness of disorder, this could inform clinicians predicting patients' prognosis and researchers selecting cases for genetic studies. Although tests of associations between family history and clinical features are numerous for depression, such tests are relatively lacking for other disorders.
Several data sources suggest a link between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (BD); however, family studies have not revealed coaggregation of these disorders.
Trichotillomania is characterized by repetitive hair pulling that causes noticeable hair loss. Data on the pharmacologic treatment of trichotillomania are limited to conflicting studies of serotonergic medications. N-acetylcysteine, an amino acid, seems to restore the extracellular glutamate concentration in the nucleus accumbens and, therefore, offers promise in the reduction of compulsive behavior.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00354770.
Most adults with a psychiatric disorder first met diagnostic criteria during childhood and/or adolescence, yet specific homotypic and heterotypic patterns of prediction have not been firmly established.
Alcohol dependence is a serious and common public health problem. It is well established that genetic factors play a major role in the development of this disorder. Identification of genes that contribute to alcohol dependence will improve our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie this disorder.
Gender differences in mental disorders, including more anxiety and mood disorders among women and more externalizing disorders among men, are found consistently in epidemiological surveys. The gender roles hypothesis suggests that these differences narrow as the roles of women and men become more equal.
High-dimensional biomolecular profiling of genetically different individuals in one or more environmental conditions is an increasingly popular strategy for exploring the functioning of complex biological systems. The optimal design of such genetical genomics experiments in a cost-efficient and effective way is not trivial.
Short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) have become the research tool of choice for gene suppression, with human clinical trials ongoing. The emphasis so far in siRNA therapeutics has been the design of one siRNA with complete complementarity to the intended target. However, there is a need for multi-targeting interfering RNA in diseases in which multiple gene products are of importance. We have investigated the possibility of using a single short synthetic duplex RNA to suppress the expression of VEGF-A and ICAM-1; genes implicated in the progression of ocular neovascular diseases such as diabetic retinopathy.
The nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) family is a set of transcription factors with key roles in the induction of the inflammatory response and may be the link between inflammation and cancer development. This pathway has been shown to influence ovarian epithelial tissue repair. Inhibitors of kappaB (IkappaB) prevent NF-kappaB activation by sequestering NF-kappaB proteins in the cytoplasm until IkappaB proteins are phosphorylated and degraded.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of structural and functional related endopeptidases. They play a crucial role in tumor invasion and building of metastatic formations because of their ability to degrade extracellular matrix proteins. Under physiological conditions their activity is precisely regulated in order to prevent tissue disruption. This physiological balance seems to be disrupted in cancer making tumor cells capable of invading the tissue. In breast cancer different expression levels of several MMPs have been found.
Currently, there is a debate as to whether triple negative breast carcinoma (TNBC) has a worse prognosis than non-TNBC. Our aim was to determine whether TNBC is a prognostic factor for survival.
The health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of hypertensives may be influenced by blood pressure, adverse effects of drugs used to treat hypertension, or other factors, such as the labelling effect, or beliefs and attitudes about illness and treatment. There is paucity of information on the determinants of HRQOL among black hypertensives especially in the developing countries such as Nigeria. This study describes the HRQOL and its determinants among black patients diagnosed and treated for Hypertension in Nigeria.
In a previous study, we observed that oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced death of endothelial cells was calpain-1-dependent. The purpose of the present paper was to study the possible activation of calpain in human carotid plaques, and to compare calpain activity in the plaques from symptomatic patients with those obtained from patients without symptoms.
In muscle cytochrome oxidase (COX) negative fibers (mitochondrial mosaics) have often been visualized.
Fluorescent proteins such as the green fluorescent protein (GFP) have widely been used in transgenic animals as reporter genes. Their use in transgenic Xenopus tadpoles is especially of interest, because large numbers of living animals can easily be screened. To track more than one event in the same animal, fluorescent markers that clearly differ in their emission spectrum are needed.
Ferns have generally been neglected in studies of chloroplast genomics. Before this study, only one polypod and two basal ferns had their complete chloroplast (cp) genome reported. Tree ferns represent an ancient fern lineage that first occurred in the Late Triassic. In recent phylogenetic analyses, tree ferns were shown to be the sister group of polypods, the most diverse group of living ferns. Availability of cp genome sequence from a tree fern will facilitate interpretation of the evolutionary changes of fern cp genomes. Here we have sequenced the complete cp genome of a scaly tree fern Alsophila spinulosa (Cyatheaceae).
High taxonomic level endemism in the Western Ghats-Sri Lanka biodiversity hotspot has been typically attributed to the subcontinent's geological history of long-term isolation. Subsequent out of -- and into India dispersal of species after accretion to the Eurasian mainland is therefore often seen as a biogeographic factor that 'diluted' the composition of previously isolated Indian biota. However, few molecular studies have focussed on into-India dispersal as a possible source of endemism on the subcontinent. Using c. 6000 base pairs of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA, we investigated the evolutionary history and biogeography of true toads (Bufonidae), a group that colonized the Indian Subcontinent after the Indo-Asia collision.
As part of community-based initiatives to strengthen integrated care and promote patient recovery, GPs are asked to play a greater part in treating serious mental disorder (SMD) patients. All current healthcare reforms favour the reinforcement of primary care. More information on enhancing the role of GPs in mental health would benefit policymakers, especially as regards SMD patients, where little research has been published as yet. This article assesses variables associated with GPs taking on SMD patients.
Housekeeping genes (HKG) are constitutively expressed in all tissues while tissue-enriched genes (TEG) are expressed at a much higher level in a single tissue type than in others. HKGs serve as valuable experimental controls in gene and protein expression experiments, while TEGs tend to represent distinct physiological processes and are frequently candidates for biomarkers or drug targets. The genomic features of these two groups of genes expressed in opposing patterns may shed light on the mechanisms by which cells maintain basic and tissue-specific functions.
Mandatory vaccination has contributed to the success of immunisation programmes but voluntary vaccination allows people to be responsible for their own health. There are benefits from both policies and the arguments between them remain subject to debate within and without the scientific community, both nationally and internationally. The aim of this study is to assess the opinions of those who actually work in the Vaccination Service.
A mathematical model was designed to explore the impact of three strategies for better tuberculosis case finding. Strategies included: (1) reducing the number of tuberculosis patients who do not seek care; (2) reducing diagnostic delay; and (3) engaging non-DOTS providers in the referral of tuberculosis suspects to DOTS services in the Indonesian health system context. The impact of these strategies on tuberculosis mortality and treatment outcome was estimated using a mathematical model of the Indonesian health system.
In a genome-wide association study performed in the Framingham Offspring Cohort, individuals homozygous for the rs7566605 C allele located upstream of insulin-induced gene 2 (INSIG2) were reported to incur an increased risk of obesity. This finding was later replicated in four out of five populations examined. The goal of the study reported here was to assess the role of the INSIG2 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in susceptibility to obesity in the prospective longitudinal Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study (n = 14,566) and in three other cohorts: the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study (n = 3,888), the Genetic Epidemiology Network of Arteriopathy (GENOA) study (n = 4,766), and extremely obese and lean individuals ascertained at the University of Ottawa (n = 1,502). The combined study sample is comprised of 24,722 white, African-American, and Mexican-American participants.
Within estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer (ER+ BC), the expression levels of proliferation-related genes can define two clinically distinct molecular subtypes. When treated with adjuvant tamoxifen, those ER+ BCs that are lowly proliferative have a good prognosis (luminal-A subtype), however the clinical outcome of those that are highly proliferative is poor (luminal-B subtype).
The human Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG) gene, located at 17p13.1, comprises, at least, two different transcription units regulated by two different promoters. The first transcription unit begins with the exon 1 sequence and is responsible for the production of plasma SHBG by the hepatocytes, while the second begins with an alternative exon 1 sequence, which replaces the exon 1 present in liver transcripts. Alternative exon 1 transcription and translation has only been demonstrated in the testis of transgenic mice containing an 11-kb human SHBG transgene and in the human testis. Our goal has been to further characterize the 5' end of the SHBG gene and analyze the presence of the SHBG alternative transcripts in human prostate tissue and derived cell lines.
The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of fibromyalgia, as well as to assess the major symptoms of this syndrome in an adult, low socioeconomic status population assisted by the primary health care system in a city in Brazil.
The Work Instability Scale for Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA-WIS) is established and is used by physicians to identify patients at risk of job loss for rapid intervention. The study objective was to explore the concept of Work Instability (a mismatch between an individual's abilities and job demands) in Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) and develop a Work Instability Scale specific to this population.
Transcription factor HaDREB2 was identified in sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) as a drought-responsive element-binding factor 2 (DREB2) with unique properties. HaDREB2 and the sunflower Heat Shock Factor A9 (HaHSFA9) co-activated the Hahsp17.6G1 promoter in sunflower embryos. Both factors could be involved in transcriptional co-activation of additional small heat stress protein (sHSP) promoters, and thus contribute to the HaHSFA9-mediated enhancement of longevity and basal thermotolerance of seeds.
Audit and classification of stillbirths is an essential part of clinical practice and a crucial step towards stillbirth prevention. Due to the limitations of the ICD system and lack of an international approach to an acceptable solution, numerous disparate classification systems have emerged. We assessed the performance of six contemporary systems to inform the development of an internationally accepted approach.
Statistical algorithms are routinely used to detect outbreaks of well-defined syndromes, such as influenza-like illness. These methods cannot be applied to the detection of emerging diseases for which no preexisting information is available.This paper presents a method aimed at facilitating the detection of outbreaks, when there is no a priori knowledge of the clinical presentation of cases.
We sought to identify factors that affect the passage of public health legislation by examining the use of arguments, particularly arguments presenting research evidence, in legislative debates regarding workplace smoking restrictions.
China is facing a critical challenge of rapid and widespread human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) increase. Rural-to-urban migration plays a crucial role in shifting the HIV/sexual transmitted infection (STI) epidemic. The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of sexual behaviors and the correlates among the early adolescents of migrant workers in China.
Increased respiratory rate (tachypnea) is frequently observed as a clinical sign of influenza pneumonia in pediatric patients admitted to the hospital. We previously demonstrated that influenza infection of adult cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) also results in tachypnea and wanted to establish whether this clinical sign was observed in infected infant cotton rats. We hypothesized that age-dependent differences in lung mechanics result in differences in ventilatory characteristics following influenza infection.
One challenge in understanding complex diseases lies in revealing the interactions between susceptibility factors, such as genetic polymorphisms and environmental exposures. There is thus a need to examine such interactions explicitly. A corollary is the need for an accessible method of measuring both the size and the significance of interactions, which can be used by non-statisticians and with summarised, e.g. published data. The lack of such a readily available method has contributed to confusion in the field.
Staphylococcus aureus is a major cause of food poisoning due to their ability to produce enterotoxins which if ingested in sufficient amounts results in sickness. Food handlers carrying enterotoxin-producing S. aureus in their noses or hands can contaminate food leading to food poisoning. We characterized 200 S. aureus obtained from food handlers in different restaurants for antibacterial resistance and the carriage of virulence genes.
The development of reverse transcription - quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) platforms that can simultaneously measure the expression of multiple genes is dependent on robust assays that function under identical thermal cycling conditions. The use of a primer optimisation matrix to improve the performance of RT-qPCR assays is often recommended in technical bulletins and manuals. Despite this recommendation, a comprehensive introduction to and evaluation of this approach has been absent from the literature. Therefore, we investigated the impact of varying the primer concentration, leaving all the other reaction conditions unchanged, on a large number of RT-qPCR assays which in this case were designed to be monitored using hydrolysis probes from the Universal Probe Library (UPL) library.
There is a considerable amount of scientific literature on football, but few studies have focused on referees, despite their key role in this sport. Existing studies focus on the physiological demands and training of referees.
After a concussion, when symptoms have decreased substantially at rest, it is recommended that athletes begin light aerobic exercise before progressing to sport specific exercise. The British Columbia Concussion Rehabilitation Programme (BC-CRP) uses a standardized cognitive and exercise test protocol designed to indicate when an athlete should progress to sport-specific exercise after a concussion.
Many patients taking statins often complain of muscle pain and weakness. The extent to which muscle pain reflects muscle injury is unknown.
Medication expenditures have become the fastest growing sector of costs within the Canadian health care system. Evaluation of the use of cardiovascular medications is important to determine the magnitude of the growth, to identify which medications dominate the landscape and to detect interprovincial differences in utilization. We describe long-term trends in the use of and expenditures for cardiovascular medications in Canada, by drug class and by province.
Diabetes mellitus is a complex disease with serious complications. Electronic decision support, providing information that is shared and discussed by both patient and physician, encourages timely interventions and may improve the management of this chronic disease. However, it has rarely been tested in community-based primary care.
One controversial issue in the larger cap-and-trade debate is the proper use and certification of carbon offsets related to changes in land management. Advocates of an expanded offset supply claim that inclusion of such activities would expand the scope of the program and lower overall compliance costs, while opponents claim that it would weaken the environmental integrity of the program by crediting activities that yield either nonexistent or merely temporary carbon sequestration benefits. Our study starts from the premise that offsets are neither perfect mitigation instruments nor useless "hot air."
Both obesity and type 2 diabetes are among the risk factors for breast cancer development. Combined effect of these metabolic abnormalities on breast cancer risk however, has not been examined in premenopausal women. We tested this association in type 2 diabetic women, categorized as obese, overweight and normal body weight groups based on BMI.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an extremely heterogeneous disease. An under recognized and very often missed subgroup within this broad spectrum concerns patients with left ventricular (LV) apical aneurysms in the absence of coronary artery disease.
The long-term outcome of pediatric coronary artery bypass for patients with severe inflammatory coronary sequelae secondary to Kawasaki disease is unknown.
Electric isolation of the pulmonary veins (PVs) can successfully treat patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. However, it remains technically challenging to identify the left atrial-PV junction and sequentially position the ablation catheter in a point-by-point contiguous fashion to isolate the PVs. In this study, a novel endoscopic ablation system was used to directly visualize and ablate tissue at the left atrial-PV junction with laser energy.
Information about physicians' adherence to cholesterol management guidelines remains scant. The present survey updates our knowledge of lipid management worldwide.
Blood loss is a common complication of cardiac surgery. Evidence suggests that recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) can decrease intractable bleeding in patients after cardiac surgery. Our objective was to investigate the safety and possible benefits of rFVIIa in patients who bleed after cardiac surgery.
Exercise training in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PH) is a promising adjunct to medical treatment. However, it is still unclear whether training is beneficial for all PH patients. We hypothesized that right ventricular adaptation plays a pivotal role in the response to training.
Urinary excretion is currently regarded as the main mechanism of elimination of N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP). The clinical implications and the value of measurement of urinary NT-proBNP in patients with heart failure are largely unknown.
The hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (HIF) subunits are destabilized via the O(2)-dependent prolyl hydroxylase domain proteins (PHD1, PHD2, and PHD3). We investigated whether inhibition of PHDs via upregulating HIF might promote postischemic neovascularization.
The management of patients with asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis remains controversial. We sought to develop a continuous risk score for predicting the midterm development of symptoms or adverse events in this setting.
Fibromyalgia (FM) has been associated with physical and emotional trauma including invasive medical procedures. Both FM and ischemic heart disease have been linked with depression. The purpose of this study was to retrospectively investigate the frequency of FM symptoms and physical findings among patients undergoing coronary catheterization.
For patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), rapid restoration of coronary blood flow is the primary therapeutic goal. Because of the acute nature of this clinical presentation, bleeding risks may not be adequately evaluated, limiting the use of drug-eluting stents, since premature discontinuation of antiplatelet therapy strongly predicts stent thrombosis. We evaluated angiographic and clinical results of non-drug-eluting carbon-coated stents.
Levels of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), a significant marker of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, may provide information on the severity of heart failure in patients with intraventricular conduction defects (IVCD).The aim of this study was to measure serum BNP levels in post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients with IVCD.
Rarely occurring in the pediatric and adolescent population, aortic dissection is a condition with many predisposing factors. Previous studies have suggested that congenital cardiovascular disorders are the most common predisposing conditions. Trauma-associated aortic dissection is considered a rare occurrence.
Methamphetamine is currently the most widespread illegal stimulant abused in the United States. No previous reports comparing echocardiographic findings of cardiomyopathy with and without a history of methamphetamine abuse are available.
This study was designed to investigate the prevalence, clinical and laboratory findings, and short-term prognostic significance of mobile right cardiac thrombus (MRCT) among patients with pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE).
Chronic heart failure is characterized by high mortality, frequent hospitalization, and reduced quality of life. Patients with severe heart failure are often in very poor physical condition, they are unable to take part in the usual exercise programs, and therefore need an individual approach.
The China Cholesterol Education Program (CCEP) aimed to investigate the baseline characteristics of outpatients with coronary heart disease (CHD) according to gender, especially lipid levels, statin intervention, and rates of achieving their goal low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level.
The data of long-term outcomes of sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) according to lesion location of unprotected left main coronary artery (LMCA) is scarce.
Elevation in cardiac enzymes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is common and is associated with adverse clinical outcomes.
Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is more effective than fibrinolytic therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), but initial treatment delay to intervention is the main limitation of this strategy.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a risk factor for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and heart failure, but little is known about the impact of MetS in patients who already have heart failure (HF).
Numerous evidence has suggested that either hypertension or atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with systemic inflammation. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) has been proved to have anti-inflammatory effects and is implicated as a molecular pathway involved in many cardiovascular diseases, such as hypertension. The correlation between PPARgamma inflammation and AF is still unknown.
Chronic total coronary occlusions (CTOs) represent a subgroup of coronary lesions with a low procedural success and high recurrence rate. However, there is evidence for a prognostic benefit of revascularizing a CTO.
The ONTARGET and TRANSCEND clinical trials were designed to investigate the cardioprotective effects of telmisartan 80 mg and ramipril 10 mg, alone and in combination, in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease. Cardiac MRI enables investigation of mechanistic effects of these agents on cardiac structural and functional variables. Here, we report the design, analysis protocol, reproducibility and relevant quality control procedures, and baseline patient characteristics of the ONTARGET/TRANSCEND cardiac MRI substudy. MRI was undertaken in 330 subjects enrolled in ONTARGET, and 38 subjects in TRANSCEND, across eight centers in six countries. Analyses were performed by two independent analysts using guide-point modeling. Cases with discrepancies in LV mass (LVM) of &gt;5% were independently reanalyzed. Cases with discrepancies in end-diastolic volume (EDV) of &gt;5%, or end-systolic volume (ESV) of &gt;12%, were then reconciled by consensus.
Paravalvular fistulas may complicate the clinical course after heart valve surgery. Medical treatment may be ineffective, repeated surgical revisions may be associated with increased morbidity and mortality.
Major depressive disorder affects a substantial percentage of the U.S. population, and can be highly debilitating. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are commonly prescribed to treat depression, but may not be as effective for more severe or persistent depression.
Several studies have shown that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) treatment is associated with a significant antidepressant effect that can last for several months.
Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) has been widely used to treat patients with depressive disorder to prevent relapse. The objective of this study was to examine the effectiveness of newly developed MBCT program as an adjuvant to pharmacotherapy in the treatment of patients with panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder.
Antidepressant drugs are among the most widely prescribed drugs in the United States; however, little is known about their use among major ethnic minority groups.
Clinicians and researchers have questioned whether participants in randomized control trials (RCTs) are representative of patients in the broader clinical population.
Outcomes of antidepressant medication treatment for major depressive disorder include remission, response, and nonresponse. But nonresponse can include depression that worsened over the course of treatment, an outcome that has received scant attention.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the outcome of the naturalistic treatment of youth with Trichotillomania (TTM) in an anxiety disorders clinic sample.
The aim of this study was to define the impact of defense style and psychological mindedness (PM) on the prognosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) in patients treated with either fluoxetine (FLX) or short-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (STPP) in a randomized comparative study.
The pathophysiology of depression is associated with the hyperactivity of immune inflammatory responses. Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors such as celecoxib reduce the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The purpose of the present investigation was to assess the efficacy of celecoxib as an adjuvant agent in the treatment of major depression in a six-week double blind and placebo controlled trial.
Anxiety disorders are the most common psychiatric disorders of childhood, generating significant distress in the individual and an economic burden to society. They are precursors to diverse psychiatric illnesses and have an impact on development. Childhood anxiety's reach into the future accentuates the importance of studying the long-term effect of treatment. The purpose of this paper is to examine existing Long-Term-Follow-Up (LTFU) studies' capacity to inform us on the impact of anxiety treatment on development.
Time-limited group cognitive behavioral treatments (GCBT) for obsessive-compulsive disorder have demonstrated improvement in target symptoms. One small sample study of GCBT specifically for hoarding problems also showed benefit. This study examines the efficacy of a specialized GCBT for compulsive hoarding on a larger sample.
Attrition, or dropping out of treatment, remains a major issue in the care of depressed outpatients. Whether different factors are associated with attrition for different socioeconomic groups is not known. This report assessed whether attrition rates and predictors of attrition differed among depressed outpatients with different income levels.
Diabetes and its related complications and comorbidities (C&amp;Cs) represent a significant and increasing healthcare burden. Absence of a systematic manner to evaluate value propositions of technologies from various stakeholders' perspectives impedes the best uses of current and emerging technologies.
This study identifies factors that influence satisfaction with an insulin delivery system (IDS). Knowledge of such factors could help identify individuals who would benefit from innovative IDS.
Following National Institute for Clinical Excellence approval of inhaled insulin Exubera (Pfizer, New York, NY) in 2006, we established a dedicated clinic in January 2007 to monitor the efficacy and safety of Exubera. Between January and October 2007, eight patients started Exubera: six because of needle phobia (DSM-IV criteria) and two with injection site problems.
Insulin pen devices are easier to use and lead to better treatment adherence than syringes. This study sought to determine factors associated with the decision to prescribe insulin pen devices rather than syringes for older patients initiating insulin therapy.
In vitro genetic modification has been regarded as one option to improve the viability and functionality of pancreatic islets when used for transplantation in patients with diabetes, either as naked islets or in a type of bioartificial pancreas. In this approach, vector safety and poor transfection efficiency are major concerns.
Islet cell adaptation to insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes mellitus may be due in part to increased stimulation of beta cells by the autonomic nervous system. The parasympathetic neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) mediates insulin release via M3 muscarinic receptors on islet beta cells. The vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT) receptor correlates with cholinergic activity in vivo. The positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracer (+)-4-[18F]fluorobenzyltrozamicol ([18F]FBT) binds to the VAChT receptor on presynaptic cholinergic neurons and can be quantified by PET. In this study, we utilize [18F]FBT PET to demonstrate pancreatic cholinergic activity before and after dextrose infusion in nonhuman primates with normal (NGT) and impaired (IGT) glucose tolerance.
Little information is available regarding glucose fluctuations in postprandial states and during the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in Japanese people with normal glucose tolerance (NGT).
Aging and diabetes are both associated with impaired vascular endothelial function. This causes a reduction in the resting blood flow and the blood flow response to autonomic stressors. Further, skin moisture and the ability to sweat are also reduced with aging and diabetes. The present investigation was undertaken to determine if the extent of damage from aging and diabetes could be accurately assessed by simply examining the electrodermal skin response (galvanic skin resistance) to a thermal stress.
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery for rectal adenomas is safe and has low recurrence rates. However, the feasibility of the procedure for all rectal adenomas is unclear. This issue was investigated prospectively.
In obese adults, physicians often fail to identify obesity and recommend treatments for it. We sought to determine whether a computerized body mass index (BMI) chart prompt would increase the likelihood that patients of family physicians would be diagnosed with obesity and referred for obesity treatment.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy of different strategies of intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) for the treatment of lower limb claudication.
GISTs, a new nosological entity recently described, represent a peculiar model of solid tumor: the identification of the molecular mechanism responsible for the oncogenesis led to the development of a new drug (imatinib) active on the specific molecular target, represented by the product of the mutated proto-oncogene c-kit which is a tyrosine kinase receptor that becomes constitutively active by mutation. Surgical resection, nevertheless, is still the primary treatment and it has to be as complete as possible. These two treatments can be integrated. GISTs are not uniformly kit-positive, and they can be alternatively due to mutations of the PDGFRA gene or, in patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF-1), to generally isolated mutations of the NF-1 gene.
Axillary lymphadenectomy remains an integral part of breast cancer treatment, yet seroma formation occurs in 15-85% of cases. Among methods to reduce seroma magnitude and duration, fibrin glue has been proposed in several studies with controversial results.
Several evidences demonstrated that general anaesthetics associated with local anaesthesia show more advantages in comparison to spinal anaesthesia in proctological surgery. Aim of this study was to verify the efficacy of deep general anaesthesia associated with a loco-regional anesthesiological technique, in a grade population of 320 patients affected by haemorrhoidal disease and anal fissure.
Providing care for individuals with a progressive, debilitating condition such as dementia can adversely impact the quality of life (QOL) of informal caregivers. To date, there is no existing caregiver quality of life measure for dementia caregivers with breadth of coverage or that is applicable to caregivers of diverse ethnic backgrounds. The purpose of this study was to develop and evaluate a caregiver-targeted quality-of-life measure (CGQOL) for informal caregivers of persons with dementia that can be used with caregivers from a variety of ethnicities.
The purpose of this study was to determine the utilization of the prophylactic Burch procedure with abdominal sacrocolpopexy since the publication of the Colpopexy and Urinary Reduction Efforts (CARE) trial.
To evaluate whether the risk of methotrexate (MTX) exposure through skin contamination using parenteral doses of 25 mg warrants special oncology handling precautions during administration.
The aim of this study was to determine whether pre-existing diabetes mellitus increases the risk of rejection, infection and/or death in cystic fibrosis patients undergoing bilateral sequential single-lung transplantation.
There are delays in implementing evidence about effective therapy into clinical practice. Clinical indicators may support implementation of guideline recommendations.
Development of indicators to measure health-care quality has progressed rapidly. This development has, however, rarely occurred in a systematic fashion, and some aspects of care have received more attention than others. The aim of this study is to identify and classify indicators currently in use to measure the quality of care provided by hospitals, and to identify gaps in current measurement.
Left ventricular dysfunction is common after coronary artery bypass graft and valve replacement surgeries and is often treated with inotropic drugs to maintain adequate hemodynamic status. In this study, we aimed to identify the demographic, clinical, laboratory, echocardiographic and hemodynamic factors that are associated with use of inotropic drugs in patients undergoing concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and aortic valve replacement surgery.
Low-dose aspirin is widely used for prevention of stroke, heart attacks, and death in patients with atherothrombotic disease, but its use is associated with serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse effects. Gastroprotective drugs (GPDs) have been used to reduce aspirin-related GI complications but are usually underutilized. The aim of this study was therefore to determine the prescription pattern of GPDs with low-dose aspirin therapy.
Patients with hemoglobin (Hb) variants may produce false HbA1c measurement. This study aimed to detect the common Hb variants in southern Taiwan and to evaluate their effect on the determination of HbA1c.
Amniotic fluid (AF) is a dynamic and complex mixture. Up to now, little is known about the physiological functions of AF in the process of fetal development. We suppose that AF carries components such as proteins or peptides, which contribute to the regulation of fetal development.
Centromere protein H (CENP-H) is one of the fundamental components of the human active kinetochore. Recently, CENP-H was identified to be associated with tumorigenesis. This study was aimed to investigate the clinicopathologic significance of CENP-H in tongue cancer.
Prevention of iatrogenic injuries is of paramount importance in difficult laparoscopic cholecystectomies (LC). The objective of this study was to analyze the effectiveness of cholangiography using a pre-inserted endoscopic naso-biliary drain (ENBD) for navigation during difficult cholecystectomies.
Pancreatic carcinoma causes more than 20,000 deaths every year in Japan. The role of (neo-) adjuvant chemotherapy for pancreatic carcinoma is still controversial.
We sought to estimate the indocyanine green (ICG) clearance (Cl), the elimination rate constant (k), and the retention rate at 15 min (R (15)) using patient-specific covariates only.
Some patients with large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC &gt; 10 cm in diameter) have favorable surgical outcome, but the selection criteria are controversial. The relationship among various staging systems [(AJCC/UICC TNM classification, Liver Cancer Study Group of Japan TNM classification, the Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP) scoring system and the Japan Integrated Staging scoring system] and postsurgical prognosis of patients with large HCC is unknown. The aim of this study was to identify the staging system with the best prognostic value for such patients.
In the present study, we performed immunohistochemical staining with a lymphatic epithelium-specific marker, D2-40, to analyze the status of lymphatic spreading in the hepatoduodenal ligament in T2 gallbladder carcinoma (GC).
We have used laparoscopic hepatectomy as a surgical treatment for HCC in patients with cirrhosis. We describe the indications, evaluate invasiveness and analyze the outcomes of laparoscopic hepatectomy.
We have accumulated over 170 patients since 1995 who underwent laparoscopic partial liver resection, laparoscopic left lateral sectionectomy, and laparoscopy-assisted hepatectomy. Bleeding control, which is a basic element of liver resection, needs to be better managed by methods suitable for safer laparoscopic liver resection. The aim of this study was to standardize the basic skills and to establish safer techniques for laparoscopic liver surgery in order to perform safe laparoscopic donor hepatectomy.
The purpose of this article is to define the state of the art in laparoscopic liver sectionectomy 2 and 3 (LLS 2 and 3) in order to advance the good option towards the "gold standard".
Outcomes of laparoscopic liver resection (LLR) are not clarified. The objective of this article is to depict the state of the art of LLR by means of a systematic review of the literature.
Longitudinal rotation, a rocking motion often seen when the dilated left ventricle (LV) is imaged in its horizontal long-axis plane, is a recently recognized phenomenon and a new predictor of response to CRT.
In atherosclerotic AS, LV global load consists of combined valvular and arterial resistance to LV ejection. Global load significantly impacts LV ejection fraction (EF) in symptomatic AS, but less is known about its effect on LV myocardial function in asymptomatic AS.
Several studies have demonstrated a high diagnostic accuracy of CCTA for detection of obstructive CAD compared with invasive angiography, but data regarding the clinical prognostic value of CCTA are limited.
For defining the location and extent of MI, DCE-MDCT compares well with delayed enhanced cardiac magnetic resonance. However, the addition of a delayed scan requires additional radiation exposure to patients. MDCT protocols using prospective ECG gating can substantially reduce effective radiation dose exposure, but these protocols have not yet been applied to infarct imaging.
Coronary angiography only provides a morphological description of coronary lesions. As the patient's prognosis is closely related to the functional significance of angiographically detected coronary lesions, a functional assessment is desirable in patients with coronary artery stenoses of intermediate severity.
Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging allows the detection of significant coronary artery disease by adenosine stress perfusion and infarct imaging. Myocardial contrast kinetics may be altered in patients after CABG owing to more complex myocardial perfusion and different distances of the contrast bolus through different bypasses and native coronary vessels. Additionally, all studies have excluded patients after CABG.
Heart rate deceleration capacity (DC) and heart rate turbulence slope (TS) are strong predictors of post-MI mortality. Salvage of jeopardized myocardium is the main mechanism by which patients benefit from reperfusion therapy. The impact of myocardial salvage on DC and TS is unknown.
Percutaneous coronary intervention is often complicated by post-procedural myocardial necrosis as manifested by elevated cardiac markers.
Pathological examinations have shown that atherosclerotic plaque rich in necrotic core is prone to develop at bifurcations. High-risk plaque detection could be improved by the combined use of a technique able to detect necrotic core (IVUS-VH) and a high-resolution technique that allows the measurement of the fibrous cap thickness (OCT).
Since benign and malignant mucin-producing tumors of the pancreas may be difficult to distinguish from each other; preoperative methods for differential diagnosis would reduce unnecessary surgery.
Anomalous junction of pancreaticobiliary ducts is a condition in which the pancreatic duct and the bile duct join outside the duodenal wall with a long common channel. The most accepted classification of various types of anomalous pancreaticobiliary junction is the new Komi classification. The majority of cases of type III anomalous pancreaticobiliary junction are reported from Japan and very seldom from outside Japan. This study evaluates the prevalence of type III anomalous pancreaticobiliary junction in the Indian population.
Epidemiologic studies have suggested an association between alcohol consumption and pancreatitis, although the exact dose-response relationship is unknown. It also remains uncertain whether a threshold effect exists.
Treating patients with metastatic carcinoma of the pancreas can lead to regression of disease, but the tumor becomes resistant to therapy within a few months. If resistance can be reversed or prevented, the chemotherapeutic benefit may be prolonged.
Pancreatic metastasis from renal cell carcinoma is a well-known entity. When metastatic disease is limited to the pancreas, pancreatic resection is the optimal treatment. A nephroblastoma is a frequent childhood cancer but can also occur in adults. A metastatic nephroblastoma mainly affects the lung and the liver. Pancreatic metastases from a nephroblastoma are very rare.
Intrapancreatic accessory spleen is an exceptionally rare entity, commonly mistaken for a pancreatic neoplasm. Preoperative diagnosis based on radiologic imaging features is difficult. Aspiration cytology may be misleading due to poor sampling.
To present the case of an unusual presentation at imaging of a very small solid undifferentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma which mimics a side-branch intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm.
Lymphoepithelial cysts are rare benign lesions of the pancreas. Endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) has reportedly been helpful in reaching a diagnosis of lymphoepithelial cyst. In cases where it may be difficult to obtain a diagnosis using FNA a histological sample may be obtained using EUS guided Trucut biopsy.
Metastatic cancer to the pancreas is rare and accounts for less than 2% of all pancreatic malignancies, metastasis from renal cell carcinoma being predominant. While symptomatic patients present with obstructive jaundice, abdominal pain, or GI bleeding, the diagnosis is often made in asymptomatic patients during follow-up for renal cell carcinoma. Hence, a high index of clinical suspicion is required in a patient who presents with a pancreatic tumor following a nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma.
Ectopic pancreas can occur anywhere in the gastrointestinal tract with the stomach and small bowel being the most common sites. The endoscopic appearance of the ectopic pancreas in the small bowel has rarely been reported.
Pseudocysts are a common complication of acute and chronic pancreatitis. These are usually located within the pancreas but they can occur at other sites as well, including the mediastinum, neck, pelvis and rarely in the liver as in our case. The diagnosis of intrahepatic pancreatic pseudocyst relies on the demonstration of a high amylase level in the sampled cystic fluid in the absence of infection or neoplasm.
To assess the feasibility and safety of a pancreas-preserving total duodenectomy in the management of severe duodenal injury caused by abdominal trauma.
Solitary true cysts of the pancreas in adults are extremely rare and only few cases have been reported in the literature. The etiology and natural history of these lesions remain unknown and treatment is not standardized. We describe two additional resected cases.
A new clinicopathological concept of IgG4-related sclerosing disease affecting various organs has recently been proposed in relation to autoimmune pancreatitis. This report describes the case of IgG4-related retroperitoneal fibrosis and sclerosing cholangitis independent of autoimmune pancreatitis, which recurred after a long period of spontaneous remission.
Osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone tumor in children and adolescents and possesses a high potential for metastasis. The most common sites of osteosarcomatous metastases are the lungs, pleurae, and bone; the pancreas being extremely rare.
Pseudoaneurysm of the hepatic artery after a pancreaticoduodenectomy is a serious complication, which should always be considered in the differential diagnosis when late bleeding has occurred.
Local resection of the pancreatic head with longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy (or Frey procedure) generally results in excellent pain relief in chronic pancreatitis. We report a patient with chronic pancreatitis who experienced pain recurrence after an uneventful longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy.
In some cases, synchronous superior mesenteric-portal vein resection can be performed during pancreatic resection for cancer. The reconstruction technique is usually primary anastomosis; in only a few cases is an autologous vein graft needed.
Genotype 2/3 hepatitis C virus (HCV) has a good response to treatment with peginterferon and ribavirin. Patients with psychiatric disorders and injecting drug users (IDUs) are considered 'difficult to treat' and are often excluded from treatment despite the lack of evidence supporting this decision.
Hyperbiliverdinaemia is a poorly defined clinical sign that has been infrequently reported in cases of liver cirrhosis or liver carcinoma, usually indicating a poor long-term prognosis.
Diabetic hepatosclerosis (DHS), recently described in liver biopsies in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, is characterized by dense perisinusoidal collagen.
Glypican-3 (GPC3) is frequently upregulated in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Analysis of GPC3-deficient mice implies GPC3 involvement in macrophage-lineage cells.
Endothelins (ET-1, ET-2, ET-3) are peptides with vasoactive properties interacting with ET(A) and ET(B) receptors. ET-1 inhibits secretin-stimulated ductal secretion (hallmark of cholangiocyte growth) of cholestatic rats by interaction with ET receptors.
Hyponatraemia increases risk of adverse outcomes following orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), but it is unclear whether improvement of pretransplant hyponatraemia ameliorates post-transplant complications.
The pathogenetic basis for the association between hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and type-2 diabetes remains uncertain. It has been reported that insulin resistance (IR) plays an essential role. We investigated the association of inflammatory [tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6] and anti-inflammatory cytokines (adiponectin and IL-10) with IR in chronic HCV infection.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common causes of chronic liver injury in many countries. Genetic factors are important for the development of NAFLD, as well as environmental factors. Recently an angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AGTR1) has been recognized as important in the aetiology of fibrosis in the liver.
Hepatic fibrosis is characterized by a progressive accumulation of fibrillar extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins including collagen, which occurs in most types of chronic liver diseases. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)/Smad3 signalling plays a central role in tissue fibrogenesis, acting as a potent stimulus of ECM accumulation.
Recent literature has supported the role of bacterial translocation as a mediator of splanchnic vasodilatation and portal hypertension. The objective of this study was to determine whether the probiotic VSL#3 would reduce portal pressure in patients with cirrhosis.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene transfer proved to enhance liver regeneration. However, elevation of their plasma levels may induce potentially serious distant effects such as tumorigenesis or proliferative retinopathy.
A key to making insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) a long-term, sustainable solution to the spread of malaria is understanding what drives their purchase and use. Few studies have analysed the determinants of demand for bed nets for malaria prevention at the household level, and in particular, how demand for nets compares with demand for other mosquito prevention methods.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 1 (TRPV1) is activated by low pH/protons and is well known to be involved in hyperalgesia during inflammation. Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), a proinflammatory cytokine, is involved in nociceptive responses causing hyperalgesia through TNF receptor type 1 (TNFR1) activation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production is also prominently increased in inflamed tissue. The present study investigated TNFR1 receptors in primary cultured mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after TRPV1 activation and the involvement of ROS. C57BL/6 mice, both TRPV1 knockout and wild type, were used for immunofluorescent and live cell imaging. The L4 and L5 DRGs were dissected bilaterally and cultured overnight. TRPV1 was stimulated with capsaicin or its potent analog, resiniferatoxin. ROS production was measured with live cell imaging and TNFR1 was detected with immunofluorescence in DRG primary cultures. The TRPV1 knockout mice, TRPV1 antagonist, capsazepine, and ROS scavenger, N-tert-Butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN), were employed to explore the functional relationship among TRPV1, ROS and TNFR1 in these studies.
Plasma insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) concentration can be used as a rough indicator of the growth-hormone status. However, for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency, dynamic tests are required. The growth hormone (GH) response in the insulin tolerance test (ITT) is considered to be the gold standard in this respect. An alternative for the ITT is the GHRH/ GHRP-6 test, which has fewer side effects. In this study we established reference values for IGF-I levels and for the GH response in both dynamic tests.
CYP2C9 enzymes are involved in non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) metabolism. Therefore, we investigated whether CYP2C9*2 and *3 variant alleles, encoding for enzymes with lower activity, increased the protective effect of NSAIDs on colorectal cancer.
The diagnosis of systemic mastocytosis (SM) is based on a combination of major and minor criteria. Flow cytometric detection of aberrant expression of CD2 and/or CD25 on CD117-positive mast cells is one of the minor criteria used. In the present study we examined the sensitivity and specificity of mast cell immunophenotyping in the diagnosis of SM.
Recently, the Dutch Association of Gastroenterology and Hepatology issued new guidelines for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV). These guidelines reflect the current standard of care. Before these guidelines were published and implemented we (1) studied the current clinical care of HCV patients among Dutch physicians, and (2) identified areas for future refinement in the current treatment.
The aim of colorectal cancer screening is to improve prognosis by the detection of early cancer and precursor stages. We compared the stage distribution of asymptomatic colorectal cancer patients detected by a positive immunochemical or guaiac-based faecal occult blood test (FOBT) with symptomatic colorectal cancer patients.
In up to 20% of patients with renal cell cancer (RCC) an inflammatory response consisting of low-grade fever, weight loss and an elevated ESR and CRP may occur with modest granulocytosis and thrombocytosis. Clinical and experimental data suggest a pathogenic role for tumour-derived cytokine production, especially interleukin-6.
Conivaptan is the first arginine vasopressin antagonist to be FDA-approved for the treatment of euvolemic hyponatremia, a common complication in neurointensive care patients. Due to risks for cerebral edema and seizures, sodium levels are generally aggressively maintained within normal levels (135-145 meq/l) in this patient population.
Hyponatremia frequently complicates acute brain injury and may precipitate neurological worsening by promoting cerebral edema. An increase in brain water may be better managed through water excretion than with fluid restriction or hypertonic fluids. Vasopressin-receptor antagonists such as conivaptan, which promote free water excretion, may be ideal agents to treat this common and potentially serious disorder.
In intensive care unit (ICU) patients, seizure or status epilepticus treatment with intravenous benzodiazepines or conventional antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), such as phenytoin, may be accompanied by cardiovascular depression or hypotension. Levetiracetam (LVM) is a novel AED that does not undergo extensive liver metabolism, does not require drug level monitoring, and is not associated with hemodynamic instability. We retrospectively analyzed the use, safety, and efficacy of LVM in ICU patients.
Severity of illness scores predict all-cause mortality after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), but do not differentiate between proximate mechanisms or predict the timing. We hypothesized that death by neurologic criteria [brain death (BD)], withdrawal of life support, and cardiovascular death would be distinct after ICH.
No clinical data exist to compare outcomes between patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) treated with different intravenous antihypertensive agents. This study was performed to compare outcomes among patients with ICH who were treated with intravenous infusion of different antihypertensive medications during the first 24 hours after admission.
Methylene blue (MB) infusion is frequently used to localize the parathyroid glands during parathyroidectomy and generally considered safe. Several recent reports suggest neurological toxicity and post-operative altered mental state typically after large dose infusions. The mechanism by which MB has neurotoxic effects in some patients remains uncertain.
Little is known about the effects of hemodialysis on the injured brain, however; concern exists over the use of intermittent hemodialysis in patients with acute brain injury (ABI) due to its hemodynamic effects and increased intracranial pressure (ICP) associated with therapy. Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) has become the preferred method of renal support in these patients though there is limited data to support its safety. Furthermore, exacerbations of cerebral edema have been reported. CRRT is an option for the treatment of hypervolemia and in theory may improve intracranial compliance. We report the case of a poly-trauma patient with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) in which CRRT was implemented solely for refractory intracranial hypertension.
Cerebral arterial gas embolism is a potentially life-threatening event. Intraarterial air can occlude blood flow directly or cause thrombosis. Sclerotherapy is an extremely rare cause of cerebral arterial gas embolism.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is associated with a risk of early seizure and guidelines recommend consideration of prophylactic antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) for some patients, although the utility is uncertain.
Hyperthermia following a severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) is common, potentiates secondary injury, and worsens neurological outcome. Conventional fever treatment is often ineffective. An induced normothermia protocol, utilizing intravascular cooling, was used to assess the impact on fever incidence and intracranial pressure (ICP) in patients with severe TBI.
Malignant MCA infarction results in significant space occupying effect and intracranial pressure (ICP) increment. Due to the high mortality rate in such patients, the term malignant MCA infarction was coined.
Pharmacologic blood pressure elevation is often utilized to prevent or treat ischemia in patients with acute neurologic injury, and routinely requires administration of vasopressor agents. Depending on the indication, vasopressor agents may be administered to treat hypotension or to induce hypertension.
Despite its clear association with impaired prognosis, it remains controversial whether hyperglycemia after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) actively contributes to neuronal damage. This study aimed to identify a threshold for blood glucose predicting unfavorable outcome, and to evaluate differences in cerebral metabolism in normo and hyperglycemic SAH patients.
The initial noncontrast computed tomography (CT) study of the head after an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is used to predict the risk of developing vasospasm. Changes in the extent of subarachnoid blood seen on CT images occur as a function of time after SAH, but there is no consensus on the time interval during which this study needs to be completed.
The antibody response to HIV-1 does not appear in the plasma until approximately 2-5 weeks after transmission, and neutralizing antibodies to autologous HIV-1 generally do not become detectable until 12 weeks or more after transmission. Moreover, levels of HIV-1-specific antibodies decline on antiretroviral treatment. The mechanisms of this delay in the appearance of anti-HIV-1 antibodies and of their subsequent rapid decline are not known. While the effect of HIV-1 on depletion of gut CD4(+) T cells in acute HIV-1 infection is well described, we studied blood and tissue B cells soon after infection to determine the effect of early HIV-1 on these cells.
Chagas disease (American trypanosomiasis) is a zoonotic or anthropozoonotic disease caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Predominantly affecting populations in poor areas of Latin America, medical care for this neglected disease is often lacking. Mdecins Sans Frontires/Doctors Without Borders (MSF) has provided diagnostic and treatment services for Chagas disease since 1999. This report describes 10 years of field experience in four MSF programs in Honduras, Guatemala, and Bolivia, focusing on feasibility protocols, safety of drug therapy, and treatment effectiveness.
Genome sequencing of Leishmania species that give rise to a range of disease phenotypes in the host has revealed highly conserved gene content and synteny across the genus. Only a small number of genes are differentially distributed between the three species sequenced to date, L. major, L. infantum and L. braziliensis. It is not yet known how many of these genes are expressed in the disease-promoting intracellular amastigotes of these species or whether genes conserved between the species are differentially expressed in the host.
Mouse AA-amyloidosis is a transmissible disease by a prion-like mechanism where amyloid fibrils act by seeding. Synthetic peptides with no amyloid relationship can assemble into amyloid-like fibrils and these may have seeding capacity for amyloid proteins.
The transient receptor potential channel (TRP) family includes more than 30 proteins; they participate in various Ca(2+) dependent processes. TRPs are functionally diverse involving thermal, chemical and mechanical transducers which modulate the concentration of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)]i). Ca(2+) triggers and/or regulates principal sperm functions during fertilization such as motility, capacitation and the acrosome reaction. Nevertheless, the presence of the TRPM subfamily in sperm has not been explored.
A cost effective, safe and efficient method of obtaining DNA samples is essential in large scale genetic analyses. Buccal cells are an attractive source of DNA, as their collection is non-invasive and can be carried out by mail. However, little attention has been given to the quality of DNA extracted from mouthwashes.
The high affinity IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI) is a crucial structure for IgE-mediated allergic reactions. We have previously demonstrated that human airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells express the tetrameric (alphabetagamma2) FcepsilonRI, and its activation leads to marked transient increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, release of Th-2 cytokines and eotaxin-1/CCL11. Therefore, it was of utmost importance to delineate the factors regulating the expression of FcepsilonRI in human (ASM) cells.
Associative conditioning is a ubiquitous form of learning throughout the animal kingdom and fear conditioning is one of the most widely researched models for studying its neurobiological basis. Fear conditioning is also considered a model system for understanding phobias and anxiety disorders. A fundamental issue in fear conditioning regards the existence and location of neurons in the brain that receive convergent information about the conditioned stimulus (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US) during the acquisition of conditioned fear memory. Convergent activation of neurons is generally viewed as a key event for fear learning, yet there has been almost no direct evidence of this critical event in the mammalian brain.
Non adherent bone marrow derived cells (NA-BMCs) have recently been described to give rise to multiple mesenchymal phenotypes and have an impact in tissue regeneration. Therefore, the effects of murine bone marrow derived NA-BMCs were investigated with regard to engraftment capacities in allogeneic and syngeneic stem cell transplantation using transgenic, human CD4(+), murine CD4(-/-), HLA-DR3(+) mice.
The discovery of genetically distinct hantaviruses in shrews (Order Soricomorpha, Family Soricidae) from widely separated geographic regions challenges the hypothesis that rodents (Order Rodentia, Family Muridae and Cricetidae) are the primordial reservoir hosts of hantaviruses and also predicts that other soricomorphs harbor hantaviruses. Recently, novel hantavirus genomes have been detected in moles of the Family Talpidae, including the Japanese shrew mole (Urotrichus talpoides) and American shrew mole (Neurotrichus gibbsii). We present new insights into the evolutionary history of hantaviruses gained from a highly divergent hantavirus, designated Nova virus (NVAV), identified in the European common mole (Talpa europaea) captured in Hungary.
The aim of the current study was to investigate the role of p55 TNF Receptor (p55 TNFR), the main signaling receptor for the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF), in the development of two vascular disorders: atherosclerosis and angiotensin (Ang) II-induced abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA).
Although La Crosse virus (LACV) is one of the most common causes of pediatric arboviral infections in the United States, little has been done to assess its geographic distribution, identify areas of higher risk of disease, and to provide a national picture of its clinical presentation. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the geographic distribution of LACV infections reported in the United States, to identify hot-spots of infection, and to present its clinical picture.
Segregation of the trophectoderm from the inner cell mass of the embryo represents the first cell-fate decision of mammalian development. Transcription factors essential for specifying trophectoderm have been identified, but the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in modulating this fate-choice has been largely unexplored. We have compared miRNA expression in embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived trophectoderm and in staged murine embryos to identify a set of candidate miRNAs likely to be involved in trophectoderm specification.
Breast cancer cell lines have been used widely to investigate breast cancer pathobiology and new therapies. Breast cancer is a molecularly heterogeneous disease, and it is important to understand how well and which cell lines best model that diversity. In particular, microarray studies have identified molecular subtypes-luminal A, luminal B, ERBB2-associated, basal-like and normal-like-with characteristic gene-expression patterns and underlying DNA copy number alterations (CNAs). Here, we studied a collection of breast cancer cell lines to catalog molecular profiles and to assess their relation to breast cancer subtypes.
Reduced expression of developmentally important genes and tumor suppressors due to haploinsufficiency or epigenetic suppression has been shown to contribute to the pathogenesis of various malignancies. However, methodology that allows spatio-temporally knockdown of gene expression in various model organisms such as zebrafish has not been well established, which largely limits the potential of zebrafish as a vertebrate model of human malignant disorders.
Non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a leading cause of cancer death. We have shown previously that IL-12rb2 KO mice develop spontaneously lung adenocarcinomas or bronchioalveolar carcinomas. Aim of the study was to investigate i) IL-12Rbeta2 expression in human primary lung adenocarcinomas and in their counterparts, i.e. normal bronchial epithelial cells (NBEC), ii) the direct anti-tumor activity of IL-12 on lung adenocarcinoma cells in vitro and vivo, and the mechanisms involved, and iii) IL-12 activity on NBEC.
Despite the large stocks of organic nitrogen in soil, nitrogen availability limits plant growth in many terrestrial ecosystems because most plants take up only inorganic nitrogen, not organic nitrogen. Although some vascular plants can assimilate organic nitrogen directly, only recently has organic nitrogen been found to contribute significantly to the nutrient budget of any plant. Carnivorous plants grow in extremely nutrient-poor environments and carnivory has evolved in these plants as an alternative pathway for obtaining nutrients. We tested if the carnivorous pitcher plant Sarracenia purpurea could directly take up intact amino acids in the field and compared uptake of organic and inorganic forms of nitrogen across a gradient of nitrogen deposition. We hypothesized that the contribution of organic nitrogen to the nitrogen budget of the pitcher plant would decline with increasing nitrogen deposition.
The chondrogenic differentiation potential of the easily accessible adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ASCs) is of particular interest within the field of tissue engineering for treating cartilage defects. However, no consensus has been reached as to which oxygen tension is more beneficial for the differentiation process.
The concurrent management of allergic rhinitis and asthma (ARA) has been recommended by Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma (ARIA) guidelines. However, a tool capable of assessing simultaneously the control of upper and lower airways diseases is lacking.
There is mounting evidence that perforin and granzymes are important mediators in the lung destruction seen in COPD. We investigated the characteristics of the three main perforin and granzyme containing peripheral cells, namely CD8+ T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK; CD56+CD3-) cells and NKT-like (CD56+CD3+) cells.
Stroke research and rehabilitation has traditionally focussed on the physical impact of a stroke, with less attention given to associated psychosocial factors. This study aimed to identify psychosocial predictors of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in chronic stroke survivors and examine differences between nondepressed and depressed participants.
Aceltylcysteine has been evaluated in several small trials as a means of reducing the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), however systematic reviews of these studies do not provide conclusive answers. Therefore, a large randomized controlled trial (RCT) is needed to provide a reliable answer as to whether acetylcysteine is effective in decreasing the risk of CIN in high-risk patients undergoing angiographic procedures.
Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00736866.
Incomplete ascertainment of outcomes in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) is likely to bias final study results if reasons for unavailability of patient data are associated with the outcome of interest. The primary objective of this study is to assess the potential impact of loss to follow-up on the estimates of treatment effect. The secondary objectives are to describe, for published RCTs, (1) the reporting of loss to follow-up information, (2) the analytic methods used for handling loss to follow-up information, and (3) the extent of reported loss to follow-up.
There is paucity of research to quantify the severity and to predict the mortality risk of severe falciparum malaria even if it affects multiple organ systems during the course of the disease. Therefore, the aim of the present study is to develop a severity score for assessment of disease severity and risk prediction in adult patients of severe falciparum malaria on the first day of hospitalisation.
Diabetes mellitus is an increasingly common life-style disorder whose management outcomes are measured in symptomatic, biochemical as well as psychological areas. Well being as an outcome of treatment is being increasingly recognized as a crucial component of treatment. There is little published literature on psychosocial outcomes and the factors influencing them. Therefore we have developed a neural network system which is trained to predict the well being in diabetes, using data generated in real life.
Contaminated toothbrushes may play a role in the transmission of local or systemic diseases. As modern dentistry emphasises prevention and infection control, toothbrushes should be correctly stored, disinfected and changed at regular intervals.
Real time intraoperative transoesophageal echocardiograpgy (TOE) has an expanding role in peri-operative management and surgical decision making.
The use of continuous peripheral nerve blocks at home (CPNBH) has improved patients' perioperative experience. In 30 months, 348 patients were sent home with interscalene CPNBH.
The prolongation of spinal anesthesia by using clonidine through the oral, intravenous and spinal route has been known. The new alpha 2 agonist, dexmedetomidine has been proved to prolong the spinal anesthesia through the intrathecal route. We hypothesized that dexmedetomidine when administered intravenously following spinal block, also prolongs spinal analgesia.
Postoperative pain in children is common after adenotonsillectomy. Rectal acetaminophen has been used effectively for postoperative pain management in small children. The aim of this randomized double blind study was to evaluate the prophylactic effect of rectal acetaminophen on postoperative pain management and opioid requirements in children undergoing adenotonsillectomy.
Pregnancy is associated with reduced local anesthetic requirements and increased pain thresholds, possibly due to hormonal changes and activation of endogenous opioids.
Robotic assistance may refine laparoscopic radical cystectomy. Steep Trendelenburg tilt (TT) and pneumoperitoneum (PP) are challenging anesthesia maneuvers. In view of those maneuvers, would inhalational anesthesia or total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) be the more appropriate anesthetic management for this kind of surgery? This issue is under consideration in this clinical trial.
The present study was conducted to compare the effect of pump injection versus manual injection on the venous pressure, during forearm intravenous regional anesthesia (IVRA) and the incidence and the magnitude of lidocaine leak.
Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) associated with metabolic alkalosis, could induce late anesthesia recovery, especially when opioids are used. The aim of this study was to compare the time of extubation and the quality of perioperative analgesia in infants scheduled for pyloromyotomy, receiving either isoflurane inhalation or remifentanil infusion.
Since the introduction of diquat in agriculture practice in 1960's, about 40 cases of poisoning have been described in detail in medical literature.
Amyloidosis represents a group of different diseases characterized by extracellular accumulation of pathologic fibrillar proteins in various tissues and organs. Severe amyloid deposition in the liver parenchyma has extrahepatic involvement predominantly in the kidney or heart. We evaluated the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid, in four patients with severe hepatic amyloidosis of different etiologies, who presented with increased alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transferase.
Courmon street name for 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is ecstasy. This widely abused "recreational" drug causes both an increased release of monoamine neurotransmitters, including serotonine and dopamine, and an increased reuptake inhibition of serotonin. As a consequence, mydriasis and increased intraocular pressure (IOP) in predisposed patients occur. We present herein a rare case of acute increased IOP after use of ecstasy.
There is a worldwide shortage of nurses but there is also an increased demand for nurses with enhanced skills who can manage a more diverse, complex and acutely ill patient population than ever before. As a result, a variety of nurses in advanced practice positions has evolved around the world. The differences in nomenclature have led to confusion over the roles, scope of practice and professional boundaries of nurses in an international context.
Little is known about Australian Nurse Practitioners (NPs) perceptions of the importance of continuing education (CE), their preferred methods to undertake CE in relation to prescribing practices or their access to electronic resources at work. Nurse Practitioner access to computerised technology may increase their provision of resources, provide point of care technology, and increase opportunities to participate in CE.
The aim of the study was to investigate the association between lifetime consumption of alcoholic beverages and cancer risk.
The fast growing Middle Eastern (ME) population has rarely been studied in the U.S.. The purpose of this study was to compare the epidemiology of primary brain tumors in this ethnic population with the non-Hispanic, non-Middle Eastern White (NHNMW) in California.
Vitamin D (1,25-dihydroxyVitamin D3) has shown experimentally anticarcinogenic effects and is thought to protect against breast cancer. The actions of Vitamin D are mediated via the Vitamin D receptor (VDR), and the polymorphisms at 3'UTR region of this gene are associated with the risk and progression of breast carcinoma. The current study is an attempt to examine the association of these variations with breast cancer risk in north Indians.
Cigarette smoking is the predominant risk factor for bladder cancer. This risk may be modified by polymorphisms in carcinogens metabolism genes; including those involving the N-acetyl transferase 2 (NAT2) which have been correlated with decreased enzyme activities. Moreover, folate insufficiency can induces carcinogenesis by decreasing DNA methylation. Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and methionine synthase (MTR) are enzymes that play central roles in the folate metabolic pathway. The MTHFR 677*T and MTR 2756*G variants are associated with decreased enzyme activity.
The perception of high resistance during injection of a local anesthetic during regional anesthesia may indicate intraneural injection. Anesthetists' ability to detect high resistance by "syringe feel" has been questioned in the past. The aim of our study was to investigate the anesthetist's ability to detect abnormal resistance to injection using an animal model.
A convenient animal model of primary lung cancer is compelling for investigation into the disease mechanisms and for development of therapeutic strategies. This study aims to develop a reproducible rat model for lung carcinoma by intra-pulmonary injection of 3,4-benzopyrene, and to evaluate the preventive effect of green tea on the formation of lung carcinoma.
Female sexual dysfunction (FSD) is defined as disorders of libido, arousal, and orgasm, as well as sexual pain, that leads to personal distress or interpersonal difficulties. Social aspects of FSD have been understudied. The aim of this study was to explore the social aspects of FSD and sexual attitudes of Jordanian women.
Breast metastasis is an extremely rare phenomenon. While nearly every malignancy has been described to metastasize to the breast; melanoma, lymphoma and leukemia tend to be the most common. Among these primary tumors, melanoma metastasis represents a diagnostic pitfall for both the clinicians and histopathologists.
High-density short oligonucleotide microarrays are useful tools for studying biodiversity, because they can be used to investigate both nucleotide and expression polymorphisms. However, when different strains (or species) produce different signal intensities after mRNA hybridization, it is not easy to determine whether the signal intensities were affected by nucleotide or expression polymorphisms. To overcome this difficulty, nucleotide and expression polymorphisms are currently examined separately.
Dispersal plays a key role in shaping biological and ecological processes such as the distribution of spatially-structured populations or the pace and scale of invasion. Here we have studied the relationship between long-distance dispersal behaviour of a pest-controlling money spider, Erigone atra, and the distribution of maternally acquired endosymbionts within the wider meta-population. This spider persists in heterogeneous environments because of its ability to recolonise areas through active long-distance airborne dispersal using silk as a sail, in a process termed 'ballooning'.
MUTYH-associated polyposis (MAP) is a recessively inherited disorder which predisposes biallelic carriers for a high risk of polyposis and colorectal carcinoma (CRC). Since about one third of the biallelic MAP patients in population based CRC series has no adenomas, this study aimed to identify specific clinicopathological characteristics of MAP CRCs and compare these with reported data on sporadic and Lynch CRCs.
A unique and essential property of embryonic stem cells is the ability to self-renew and differentiate into multiple cell lineages. However, the possible differences in proliferation and differentiation capabilities among independently-derived human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are not well known because of insufficient characterization. To address this question, a side-by-side comparison of 1) the ability to maintain an undifferentiated state and to self-renew under standard conditions; 2) the ability to spontaneously differentiate into three primary embryonic germ lineages in differentiating embryoid bodies; and 3) the responses to directed neural differentiation was made between three NIH registered hES cell lines I3 (TE03), I6 (TE06) and BG01V. Lines I3 and I6 possess normal XX and a normal XY karyotype while BG01V is a variant cell line with an abnormal karyotype derived from the karyotypically normal cell line BG01.
The in vitro culture of insulinomas provides an attractive tool to study cell proliferation and insulin synthesis and secretion. However, only a few human beta cell lines have been described, with long-term passage resulting in loss of insulin secretion. Therefore, we set out to establish and characterize human insulin-releasing cell lines.
The potential contribution of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) modalities to promote and support critical health literacy has not received substantial attention within either the health promotion or the CAM literature. This paper explores the potential of one CAM modality, shiatsu, in promoting well-being and critical health literacy.
Variation in carrying capacity and population return rates is generally ignored in traditional studies of population dynamics. Variation is hard to study in the field because of difficulties controlling the environment in order to obtain statistical replicates, and because of the scale and expense of experimenting on populations. There may also be ethical issues. To circumvent these problems we used detailed simulations of the simultaneous behaviours of interacting animals in an accurate facsimile of a real Danish landscape. The models incorporate as much as possible of the behaviour and ecology of skylarks Alauda arvensis, voles Microtus agrestis, a ground beetle Bembidion lampros and a linyphiid spider Erigone atra. This allows us to quantify and evaluate the importance of spatial and temporal heterogeneity on the population dynamics of the four species.
The comparative analysis of genome sequences emerging for several avian species with the fully sequenced chicken genome enables the genome-wide investigation of selective processes in functionally important chicken genes. In particular, because of pathogenic challenges it is expected that genes involved in the chicken immune system are subject to particularly strong adaptive pressure. Signatures of selection detected by inter-species comparison may then be investigated at the population level in global chicken populations to highlight potentially relevant functional polymorphisms.
YidC/Oxa/Alb3 family includes a group of conserved translocases that are essential for protein insertion into inner membranes of bacteria and mitochondria, and thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. Because mitochondria and chloroplasts are of bacterial origin, Oxa and Alb3, like many other mitochondrial/chloroplastic proteins, are hypothetically derived from the pre-existing protein (YidC) of bacterial endosymbionts. Here, we test this hypothesis and investigate the evolutionary history of the whole YidC/Oxa/Alb3 family in the three domains of life.
The molecular mechanisms of cell cycle exit are poorly understood. Studies on lymphocytes at cell cycle exit after growth factor deprivation have predominantly focused on the initiation of apoptosis. We aimed to study gene expression profile of primary and immortalised IL-2-dependent human T cells forced to exit the cell cycle by growth factor withdrawal, before apoptosis could be evidenced.
Plasmodium sporozoites migrate to the liver where they traverse several hepatocytes before invading the one inside which they will develop and multiply into thousands of merozoites. Although this constitutes an essential step of malaria infection, the requirements of Plasmodium parasites in liver cells and how they use the host cell for their own survival and development are poorly understood.
Hepatotoxicity is a form of liver injury caused by exposure to stressors. Genomic-based approaches have been used to detect changes in transcription in response to hepatotoxicants. However, there are no straightforward ways of using co-expressed genes anchored to a phenotype or constrained by the experimental design for discerning mechanisms of a biological response.
Microarray technology helped to accumulate an immense pool of data on gene expression changes in response to different environmental factors. Yet, computer- generated gene profiling using expressed sequence tags (EST) represents a valuable alternative to microarrays, which allows efficient discovery of homologous sequences in evolutionarily different species and comparison of gene sets on the whole genome scale. In this study, we used publicly available EST database derived from different plant species infected with a variety of pathogens, to generate an expression profile of homologous genes involved in defense response of a model organism, Arabidopsis thaliana.
Functional disability, the loss of ability to carry out daily tasks unaided, is a major adverse outcome more common with increasing age. The potential contribution of neuropathological changes in subcortical areas of the brain associated with normal ageing may be a contributing factor to this loss of function. This study investigates the clinicopathological relationship between functional ability during life and pathological correlates identified at post mortem in an UK population of older people (66-102 years).The aim is to examine the clinicopathological correlates of functional disability in subcortical neuronal populations of non-demented elderly individuals.
Accurate spirometry is important in the management of COPD. The UK Quality and Outcomes Framework pay-for-performance scheme for general practitioners includes spirometry related indicators within its COPD domain. It is not known whether high achievement against QOF spirometry indicators is associated with spirometry to BTS standards.
Studies have shown that research participants fail to appreciate the difference between research and medical care, labeling such phenomenon as a "therapeutic misconception" (TM). Since research activity involving human participants is increasing in the Middle East, qualitative research investigating aspects of TM is warranted. Our objective was to assess for the existence of therapeutic misconception amongst Egyptians.
Copy-number variations (CNVs) are structural variations in the genome involving 1 kb to 3 mb of DNA. CNV has been reported within intron 1 of the BMPR2 gene. We propose that CNV could affect phenotype in familial and/or sporadic pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) by altering gene expression.
NIH NCT00091546.
Although mitochondrial dysfunction is consistently manifested in patients with Type 2 Diabetes mellitus (T2DM), the association of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence variants with T2DM varies among populations. These differences might stem from differing environmental influences among populations. However, other potentially important considerations emanate from the very nature of mitochondrial genetics, namely the notable high degree of partitioning in the distribution of human mtDNA variants among populations, as well as the interaction of mtDNA and nuclear DNA-encoded factors working in concert to govern mitochondrial function. We hypothesized that association of mtDNA genetic variants with T2DM could be revealed while controlling for the effect of additional inherited factors, reflected in family history information.
The zinc uptake regulator Zur is a Zn2+-sensing metalloregulatory protein involved in the maintenance of bacterial zinc homeostasis. Up to now, regulation of zinc homeostasis by Zur is poorly understood in Y. pestis.
Studies of gene expression in experimental cerebral ischaemia models can contribute to understanding the pathophysiology of brain ischaemia and to identifying prognostic markers and potential therapeutic targets. The normalization of relative qRT-PCR data using a suitable reference gene is a crucial prerequisite for obtaining reliable conclusions. No validated housekeeping genes have been reported for the relative quantification of the mRNA expression profile activated in in-vitro ischaemic conditions, whereas for the in-vivo model different reference genes have been used. The present study aims to determine the expression stability of ten housekeeping genes (Gapdh, beta2m, Hprt, Ppia, Rpl13a, Oaz1, 18S rRNA, Gusb, Ywhaz and Sdha) to establish their suitability as control genes for in-vitro and in-vivo cerebral ischaemia models.
We conducted the present study to investigate the therapeutic effects of a combination treatment of alfacalcidol (ALF) and risedronate (RIS) on the bone mechanical properties of bone and calcium (Ca) metabolism using an ovariectomized (OVX) rat model of osteoporosis.
Providing appropriate palliative care for older people is a major task for health care systems worldwide, and up to now it has also been one of the most neglected. Focusing on the German health care system, we sought to explore the attitudes of health professionals regarding their understanding of palliative care for older patients and its implementation.
Studies on migration often ignore the health and social impact of migrants returning to their rural communities. Several studies have shown migrants to be particularly susceptible to HIV infection. This paper investigates whether migrants to rural households have a higher risk of dying, especially from HIV, than non-migrants.
The relationship between poor health and unemployment is well established. Health promotion among unemployed persons may improve their health. The aims of this study were to investigate characteristics of non-participants and drop-outs in a multidisciplinary health promotion programme for long-term unemployed persons with health complaints, to evaluate changes in physical health among participants, and to investigate determinants of improvement in physical health.
Kinesin-5 (Eg-5) motor proteins are essential for maintenance of spindle bipolarity in animals. The roles of Kinesin-5 proteins in other systems, such as Arabidopsis, Dictyostelium, and sea urchin are more varied. We are studying Kinesin-5-like proteins during early development in the brown alga Silvetia compressa. Previously, this motor was shown to be needed to assemble a bipolar spindle, similar to animals. This report builds on those findings by investigating the localization of the motor and probing its function in spindle maintenance.
Mitochondrial tumor suppressor gene 1 (MTUS1) has been recently identified as a candidate tumor suppressor gene which resides in a genomic region (8p22) that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in several tumor types. It has been suggested that multiple gene promoters and alternative splicing lead to the expression of 5 known MTUS1 transcript variants.
Diarrhoea is the second leading cause of illness and death in developing countries and the second commonest cause of death due to infectious diseases among children under five in such countries. Parasites, as well as bacterial and viral pathogens, are important causes of diarrhoea. However, parasitic infections are sometimes overlooked, leading after a period of time to an uncertain aetiology. In this paper we report the prevalence of Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica and Cryptosporidium sp. in and around Kolkata.
Premature menopause is a major concern of younger women undergoing adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. Hormone replacement therapy is contraindicated in women with a history of breast cancer. Non-hormonal medications show a range of bothersome side-effects. There is growing evidence that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and physical exercise can have a positive impact on symptoms in naturally occurring menopause. The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy of these interventions among women with breast cancer experiencing treatment-induced menopause.
Techniques for the surgical treatment of thyroid related strabismus vary and include non-adjustable (standard), [postop'] adjustable suture, and a newer procedure aimed at correcting restriction rather than using dose/response tables.This study reports the results utilizing standard strabismus procedures for the treatment of thyroid ophthalmopathy.
Superior oblique tuck is an effective procedure for the treatment of superior oblique palsy. There has been no report of the extrusion of the non-absorbable suture typically used in this procedure. We describe a case of late extrusion of the non-absorbable suture used in a superior oblique tuck.
JAM-C (junctional adhesion molecule C) has been implicated in the regulation of leukocyte migration, cell polarity, spermatogenesis, angiogenesis and nerve conduction. JAM-C has been also reported to concentrate at TJs (tight junctions) and desmosomes, although detailed localization studies remain incomplete.
Caspase-dependent and -independent death mechanisms are involved in apoptosis in a variety of human carcinoma cells treated with antineoplastic compounds. Our laboratory has reported that p53 is a key contributor of mitochondrial apoptosis in cervical carcinoma cells after staurosporine exposure. However, higher mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation and greater DNA fragmentation were observed in p53wt (wild-type p53) HeLa cells compared with p53mt (mutated p53) C-33A cells. Here, we have studied events linked to the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway.
Interconnections between the Ca2+ and cAMP signalling pathways can determine the specificity and diversity of the cellular effects mediated by these second messengers. Most cAMP effects are mediated by PKA (protein kinase A), which is anchored close to its membranous substrates by AKAPs (A kinase-anchoring proteins). In many cell types, the activation of InsP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor), an endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ channel, is a key event of Ca2+ signalling. The phosphorylation of InsP3R1 by PKA stimulates Ca2+ mobilization. This control is thought to be tight, involving the association of PKA with InsP3R1. The InsP3R1 isoform predominates in central nervous tissue and its concentration is highest in the cerebellar microsomes. We investigated the complex formed by InsP3R1 and PKA in this fraction, vith a view to identifying its components and determining its distribution in the cerebellar cortex.
The endometrial epithelial cell membrane is a key interface in female reproductive biology. Steroid hormones play a predominant role in cyclic changes which occur at this interface during the female menstrual cycle. Specific changes in the morphology of the endometrial epithelial cell surface become apparent with the epithelial transition that drives the switch from a non-receptive to receptive surface due to the action of progesterone on an oestrogen primed tissue. AFM (atomic force microscopy) allows the high-resolution characterization of the endometrial epithelial cell surface. Its contact probe mechanism enables a unique imaging method that requires little sample preparation, yielding topographical and morphological characterization. By stiffening the cell membrane, low concentrations of fixatives allow the surface detail of the cell to be resolved while preserving fine ultra-structural details for analysis.
Previous research has produced conflicting results regarding the effects of season of birth and age-position on cognitive attainments. In Northern Ireland the school year divides the summer season into two providing an opportunity to evaluate the relative contribution of season of birth and age-position effects.
Shayer, Ginsburg, and Coe (2007) showed that children leaving primary school in Y6 entered secondary school with much lower levels of understanding of the physical conservations than in 1976. It seemed desirable to investigate cognitive development in the first three years of secondary education.
Constructivist views of learning have brought conceptions of learning to attention again. Conceptions are considered important determinants of effective learning. Students can differ in their conceptions depending on their educational experience.
Relatively little is known about the contribution of students' beliefs regarding the nature of academic ability (i.e. their implicit theories) on strategies used to deal with examinations.
During recent decades, self-regulated learning (SRL) has become a major research field. SRL successfully integrates the cognitive and motivational components of learning. Self-regulation is usually seen as an individual process, with the social aspects of regulation conceptualized as one aspect of the context. However, recent research has begun to investigate whether self-regulation processes are complemented by socially shared regulation processes.
Despite the renewed interest in citizenship education, relatively little is known about effective ways to realize citizenship education in the classroom. In the literature on citizenship education, dialogue is considered to be a crucial element. However, there is very little, if any, empirical research into the different ways to stimulate dialogue.
Lack of adjustment or school failure is a concern to educators, educational and school psychologists as well as parents, but few studies have focused on school adjustment during late adolescence. Moreover, studies have yet to explore associations between parenting and school adjustment among upper secondary school students.
Knowledge of concepts and procedures seems to develop in an iterative fashion, with increases in one type of knowledge leading to increases in the other type of knowledge. This suggests that iterating between lessons on concepts and procedures may improve learning.
A program of research is needed that assesses the psychometric properties of instruments designed to quantify students' achievement goal orientations to clarify inconsistencies across previous studies and to provide a stronger basis for future research.
The introduction of the Australian Research Training Scheme has been a strong reason for assuring the quality of the research higher degree (RHD) experience; if students experience poor supervision, an unsupportive climate, and inadequate infrastructure, prior research suggests RHD students will be less likely to complete their degree, with negative consequences for the student, the university, and society at large.
Since its March 2006 FDA approval in the United States, Birmingham hip resurfacing (BHR) has been a popular alternative to hip arthroplasty for the younger patient population. Data to date has shown a trend toward low incidence of dislocation and good survivorship.
Some studies have suggested that resurfacing patients are generally more active postoperatively than their conventional total hip arthroplasty (THA)counterparts, but controversy remains over whether this is a reflection of preferential use of resurfacing for younger and higher-activity patients. We hypothesized that, when controlling for preoperative activity levels, in addition to relevant clinical and demographic factors, resurfacing provides similar results to conventional hip arthroplasty.
Most designs of metal-on-metal hip resurfacing utilize cement for femoral fixation, but the amount, application, and distribution of cement varies considerably according to implant design and surgeon preference. In one type of hip resurfacing system (Conserve Plus), the objective was to achieve a 1-mm cement mantle and several millimeters of penetration. In early cases of the senior investigator's (HCA) series, cement fixation failures were noted, and this prompted changes in femoral head preparation and cement application techniques. Survivorship improved following implementation of these changes. The aim of the current study was to examine revised femoral components for the cement distribution, especially in cases where the improved techniques were subsequently applied.
The recent, encouraging outcome literature on hip resurfacing arthroplasty (HRA) has not sufficiently examined the potential occurrence of postoperative femoroacetabular impingement (PFAI) and sequelae. The current study asks the questions, "Does femoroacetabular impingement occur after hip resurfacing arthroplasty (HRA) and, if so, what are the clinical outcomes?"
Arthritis is the most common chronic disease in the elderly. Studies show that rheumatoid arthritis is a risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and osteoarthritis is associated with an unfavorable cardiovascular risk factor profile.
Episodic symptoms, often reported during exertion, complicate the assessment of suspected supraventricular tachycardia (SVT).
Large artery stiffness is a major determinant of pulse pressure (PP), and PP at baseline has been associated with future coronary events.
Structural and functional alterations in the senescent heart have been associated with an activated sympathetic nervous system and a regional cardiac renin-angiotensin system. To date, however, limited information related to their expression alteration during the whole procress of growth and development has been reported.
Amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis (AIT) develops in 3% of amiodarone-treated patients in North America. AIT is classified as type 1 or type 2. Type 1 AIT occurs in patients with underlying thyroid pathology such as autonomous nodular goiter or Graves' disease. Type 2 AIT is a result of amiodarone causing a subacute thyroiditis with release of preformed thyroid hormones into the circulation.
Simultaneous integrated coronary artery revascularization combines coronary artery bypass surgery and percutaneous coronary intervention into a single procedure. This approach provides immediate, complete and optimal myocardial revascularization in a less invasive manner. Because simultaneous integrated coronary revascularization necessitates two distinct anticoagulation protocols for the surgical and percutaneous aspects of the procedure, combining these anticoagulation protocols carries a bleeding risk. Using a single anticoagulant to facilitate the necessities of both aspects of the integrated approach may alleviate this risk.
Although positron emission tomography (PET) is routinely performed using vasodilator stress, exercise and dobutamine stress are available alternatives. Evidence suggests that vasodilator PET myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) has prognostic value, but the prognostic value of treadmill exercise and dobutamine PET MPI is unknown.
Despite its widespread use, limited data on the validity of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society angina (CCSA) classification relative to other measures of functional status have been reported.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive technique used to accurately and reproducibly measure biological parameters such as left ventricular mass. However, some subjects either refuse or are unable to complete testing, and the impact of excluding these missing data from predictive models is unknown.
Plasma levels of the inflammatory biomarker C-reactive protein (CRP) predict cardiovascular risk and may represent a target for treating and/or monitoring risk-reduction strategies. The effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on CRP levels has not been adequately studied.
Immune modulation by the Celacade system (Vasogen Inc, Canada) decreases mortality and hospitalization in human heart failure.
Treatment modalities in Chiari malformation type 1(CMI) accompanied by syringomyelia have not yet been standardized. Pathologies such as a small posterior fossa and thickened dura mater have been discussed previously. Various techniques have been explored to enlarge the foramen magnum and to expand the dura. The aim of this clinical study was to explore a new technique of excision of the external dura accompanied by widening the cisterna magna and making longitudinal incisions in the internal dura, without disturbing the arachnoid.
In the general population, rates of certain respiratory infections (and mortality from these infections) are higher in winter. We hypothesized that in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and/or pulmonary fibrosis (PF) from any cause, death rates would be increased during the winter season, independent of recognized infection. Our objective was to determine if mortality rates from IPF and/or PF of any cause exhibit seasonal variation.
Thoracotomy is associated with severe pain. We hypothesized that the concomitant use of a subanesthetic dose of ketamine plus a two-third-standard morphine dose might provide more effective analgesia with fewer side effects than a standard morphine dose for early pain control.
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00625911.
The diagnostic yield of endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS)-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) for peripheral pulmonary lesions (PPLs) has not been evaluated. The diagnostic impact of TBNA when the EBUS probe is adjacent to lesions remains to be determined.
Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00626587.
Pulmonary venous hypertension (PVH) is a well-described cause of pulmonary hypertension (PH) in patients with left heart disease associated with elevated left heart filling pressure. PVH results from a number of processes, including left-sided valvular disease, constrictive pericardial disease, restrictive cardiomyopathies, and left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction. PVH in patients with normal LV systolic function, commonly referred to as diastolic dysfunction, is not well characterized. We observed that many patients with PH due to PVH have obesity, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and hypercholesterolemia, which are clinical features of the metabolic syndrome (MS), a previously identified cause for systemic vascular disease.
Cigarette smoking in asthma patients causes insensitivity to inhaled glucocorticoids (GCs). We tested the hypothesis that smoking causes GC insensitivity in alveolar macrophages (AMs) obtained from patients with asthma.
The links among smoking, inflammation, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) are well established. Several studies have demonstrated that quitting smoking reverses the risk of coronary heart disease within 5 to 10 years. However, the immediate effects of quitting smoking on inflammatory biomarkers associated with CVD risk have not been well described.
The obesity epidemic has prompted remarkable changes in the proportion of obese children who are referred for habitual snoring. However, the contribution of obesity to adenotonsillar hypertrophy remains undefined.
We investigated the usefulness of measurements of fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) and pH of exhaled breath condensate (EBC) for monitoring airway response after specific inhalation challenges with isocyanates in sensitized subjects.
It has been suggested that the presence of emphysema modifies the outcome of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). In this article we compare clinical features, smoking history, pulmonary function, estimated systolic pulmonary artery pressure (eSPAP), and mortality in IPF with emphysema vs IPF without emphysematous changes.
The role of procalcitonin (PCT) in parapneumonic pleural effusion (PPPE) as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker of the outcome has not been examined before.
Long-acting beta(2)-agonists (LABAs) are recommended as add-on therapy to antiinflammatory treatment in patients with chronic persistent asthma. Results from individual studies evaluating the in vivo antiinflammatory effect of LABAs are conflicting. The purpose of this metaanalysis was to determine whether LABAs have an in vivo antiinflammatory effect compared to placebo and whether the addition of a LABA to therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) has a synergistic or additive antiinflammatory effect.
Cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases. This population-based study explored whether low FEV(1) or low vital capacity (VC) is associated with autonomic dysfunction, as measured by spontaneous heart rate variability (HRV) and systolic BP variability (SBPV).
Patients with usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) associated with collagen vascular disease (CVD) have been reported to have a better prognosis than those with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis with a UIP pattern (IPF/UIP) seen on histology. The aim of this study was to evaluate the pathologic and radiologic differences between the two conditions and their relationship with clinical outcome.
The mechanisms underlying the benefits of regular physical activity in the evolution of COPD have not been established. Our objective was to assess the relationship between regular physical activity and the clinical and functional characteristics of COPD.
Although hospitalizations for AIDS-associated Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) in the United States have decreased since the introduction of chemoprophylaxis and potent combination antiretroviral therapy (ART), PCP remains an important cause of illness and death among AIDS patients.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is typically distinguished from pulmonary venous hypertension (PVH) by documenting a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) &lt;or= 15 mm Hg. However, PCWP has uncertain utility in establishing PAH. We sought to determine the calibration, discrimination, and diagnostic accuracy of PCWP, using simultaneously measured left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) as the "gold standard."
C-reactive protein (CRP) is an important risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, it has been reported that levels of CRP are increased in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The aim of this study was to examine the effects of long-term therapy with nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) on CRP levels and to investigate whether compliance with nCPAP therapy more effectively attenuated markers of systemic inflammation in patients with OSA.
Platelet activation with subsequent neutrophilic adherence to the vasculature initiates ischemia-reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that higher plasma P-selectin levels reflecting platelet activation would therefore be associated with primary graft dysfunction (PGD) after lung transplantation.
Although physicians sometimes use the futility rationale to limit the use of life-sustaining treatments, little is known about how surrogate decision makers view this rationale. We sought to determine the attitudes of surrogates of patients who are critically ill toward whether physicians can predict futility and whether these attitudes predict surrogates' willingness to discontinue life support when faced with predictions of futility.
Despite widespread guidelines recommending the use of lung-protective ventilation (LPV) in patients with acute lung injury (ALI), many patients do not receive this lifesaving therapy. We sought to estimate the incremental clinical and economic outcomes associated with LPV and determined the maximum cost of a hypothetical intervention to improve adherence with LPV that remained cost-effective.
Adenosine-5'-monophosphate (AMP) is an indirect challenge agent thought to reflect allergic airway inflammation. The forced oscillation technique (FOT) is ideal for use in young children and is suitable for inhaled challenge studies in patients who are in this age group. We assessed the agreement between a shortened and a standard AMP challenge and the repeatability of the shortened AMP challenge using FOT as a primary outcome variable.
Recent studies have suggested that early goal-directed resuscitation of patients with septic shock and conservative fluid management of patients with acute lung injury (ALI) can improve outcomes. Because these may be seen as potentially conflicting practices, we set out to determine the influence of fluid management on the outcomes of patients with septic shock complicated by ALI.
Immunocompromised persons infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) have increased risk of tuberculosis (TB) reactivation, but their management is hampered by the occurrence of false-negative results of the tuberculin skin test (TST). The T-cell interferon (IFN)-gamma release blood assays T-SPOT.TB (TS.TB) [Oxford Immunotec; Abingdon, UK] and QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT-IT) [Cellestis Ltd; Carnegie, VIC, Australia] might improve diagnostic accuracy for latent TB infection (LTBI) in high-risk persons, although their performance in different groups of immunocompromised patients is largely unknown.
Our objective was to investigate the expression of survivin, Bcl-2, p53, Ki-67, and Src in thymic neoplasms and analyze their interrelationship with clinicopathologic variables.
The impact of sleep apnea on work disability, in terms of sickness absence and disability pension, is unclear. We sought to estimate the total number of lost workdays caused by sleep apnea either due to medically certified sickness absences or disability pensions during the 5 years prior to the year of a sleep apnea diagnosis.
Recurrent exacerbations are common in COPD patients. Limited information exists regarding exacerbation frequency in COPD patients from epidemiologic studies. We examined the frequency of self-reported exacerbations and the factors influencing exacerbation frequency among COPD patients in a population-based study conducted in Latin America.
To develop and compare ICU length-of-stay (LOS) risk-adjustment models using three commonly used mortality or LOS prediction models.
Despite optimal drug treatment, many patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) or COPD still experience disabling dyspnea, fatigue, and exercise intolerance. They also exhibit significant changes in body composition. Attempts to rehabilitate these patients are often futile because conventional exercise-training modalities are limited by the severity of exertional dyspnea. Therefore, there is substantial interest in new training modalities that do not evoke dyspnea, such as transcutaneous neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES).
Reduced pulmonary function is an independent predictor of metabolic syndrome (MetS) and diabetes mellitus (DM), conditions associated with increased mortality. We investigated whether reduced pulmonary function is associated with increased mortality in persons with these conditions.
The rate and reasons for discontinuation of contact lens wear by young patients are not well known. The Contact Lenses in Pediatrics (CLIP) Study surveyed participants 3 months after the final study visit to determine the percentage of participants who continued to wear contact lenses after study conclusion. The factors associated with continued contact lens wear and differences in behaviors between the children and teens were also determined to provide insights to practitioners who provide refractive correction for patients in those age groups.
MRM has matured to the point that we can generate high contrast, high-resolution images even for species as small as a mouse, with a brain merely 1/3000th the size of humans. We generated 21.5-micron data sets for a diverse panel of BXD mouse strains to gauge the extent of genetic variation, and as a prelude to comprehensive genetic and genomic analyses. Here we review MRM capabilities and image segmentation methods; heritability of brain variation; covariation of the sizes of brain regions; and correlations between MRM and classical histological data sets.
Cerebral palsy (CP) is one of the most frequent conditions encountered in the daily practice of dentists who treat special-needs individuals and it seems that traumatic dental injuries are often present in these cases. The aim of this study was to investigate and describe the prevalence related to traumatic dental injury (TDI) in individuals with CP attending rehabilitation treatment at the Lar Escola Sao Francisco Rehabilitation Center in So Paulo, Brazil.
Tooth avulsion is the complete displacement of a tooth from its socket due to intentional or non-intentional injuries. Treatment in these cases comprises tooth replantation. This accident is very critical as the success of tooth replantation is directly dependent on several factors, such as extra-alveolar period, storage of the tooth until replantation, type of retention employed, time of endodontic intervention, type of drug prescribed, oral hygiene status as well as general health. This trauma commonly occurs during sports practice, school, and leisure activities. The first measures are critical for the prognosis of the avulsed tooth. Several studies report lack of knowledge of the population, educators, sports professionals, and health professionals in the management of tooth avulsion. This study evaluated the influence of education on different groups of professionals, addressing the knowledge and prevention and emergency management of the avulsed tooth.
The development of modern information telecommunication (ITC) technology and its use in telemedicine plays an increasingly important role in facilitating access to some diagnostic services even to people living in the most remote areas. However, physical and economical constraints in the access to broad band data-transmission network, still represent a considerable obstacle to the transmission of images for the purpose of tele-pathology.
General practices educate increasing numbers of learners at various stages. Criteria for educational provision exist, but practices supporting learners at different stages and from different institutions might face different criteria.
DNA methylation is a major epigenetic modification important for regulating gene expression and suppressing spurious transcription. Most methods to scan the genome in different tissues for differentially methylated sites have focused on the methylation of CpGs in CpG islands, which are concentrations of CpGs often associated with gene promoters.
Witnessed resuscitation is the process of resuscitation in the presence of family members.
With one exception, a case report of amantadine-induced corneal toxicity has described reversible corneal edema.
homB encodes a Helicobacter pylori outer membrane protein. This gene was previously associated with peptic ulcer disease (PUD) and was shown to induce activation of interleukin-8 secretion in vitro, as well as contributing to bacterial adherence. Its 90%-similar gene, homA, was previously correlated with gastritis. The present study aimed to evaluate the gastric disease association with homB and homA, as well as with the H. pylori virulence factors cagA, babA and vacA, in 415 H. pylori strains isolated from patients from East Asian and Western countries. The correlation among these genotypes was also evaluated.
Successful prophylactic therapy might require not only efficacy but meeting patients' expectations about the potential side effects of the preventative drug selected. Prior to prescribing prophylactic drugs to prophylaxis-naive migraine patients, we aimed to quantify the acceptance or rejection of some of the possible adverse events associated with migraine prophylactic drugs.
When dealing with chronic back pain, low-intensity multidisciplinary treatment yields no significantly better results than standard care and monodisciplinary therapy; however, high-intensity treatment does. For multidisciplinary headache treatment, such comparisons are not yet available. In a previous study undertaken by our Pain Center, the outcome of a minimal multidisciplinary intervention model (20-hour) did not exceed primary care.
We report preliminary results of a novel acute treatment for intractable migraine. The sphenopalatine ganglion (SPG) has sensorimotor and autonomic components and is involved in migraine pathophysiology.
Triptan monotherapy is ineffective or poorly tolerated in 1 of 3 migraineurs and in 2 of 5 migraine attacks. In April, 2008, the Food and Drug Administration approved the combination therapy sumatriptan/naproxen sodium, developed specifically to target multiple migraine mechanisms. This combination product offers an alternative migraine therapy for patients who have reported poor response or intolerance to short-acting triptans.
Pharmacy personnel are supposed to be well informed of recommendations for proper migraine management, but their easy access to medicines may favor self-medication and promote medication overuse for those with frequent migraine attacks.
Sleep disturbances are a common and bothersome symptom of fibromyalgia (FM). This study reports psychometric properties of a single-item scale to assess sleep quality among individuals with FM.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a degenerative neurological disease that causes impairments, including spasticity, pain, fatigue, and bladder dysfunction, which negatively impact on quality of life. The Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS-29) is a disease-specific health-related quality of life (HRQoL) instrument, developed using the patient's perspective on disease impact. It consists of two subscales assessing the physical (MSIS-29-PHYS) and psychological (MSIS-29-PSYCH) impact of MS. Although previous studies have found support for the psychometric properties of the MSIS-29 using traditional methods of scale evaluation, the scale has not been subjected to a detailed Rasch analysis. Therefore, the objective of this study was to use Rasch analysis to assess the internal validity of the scale, and its response format, item fit, targeting, internal consistency and dimensionality.
Patient, or parent/guardian, satisfaction with health care provision is important to health outcomes. Poor relationships with health workers, particularly with nursing staff, have been reported to reduce satisfaction with care in Africa. Participatory research approaches such as the Health Workers for Change initiative have been successful in improving provider-client relationships in various developing country settings, but have not yet been reported in the complex environment of hospital wards. We evaluated the HWC approach for improving the relationship between nurses and parents on a paediatric ward in a busy regional hospital in Tanzania.
Rigorous evaluation of an intervention requires that its allocation be unbiased with respect to confounders; this is especially difficult in complex, system-wide healthcare interventions. We developed a short survey instrument to identify factors for a minimization algorithm for the allocation of a hospital-level intervention to reduce emergency department (ED) waiting times in Ontario, Canada.
Cutaneous vasculitis presents as a mosaic of clinical and histological findings. Its pathogenic mechanisms and clinical manifestations are varied.
There have been controversial reports about the possible association between mycosis fungoides (MF), its leukemic variant Siotazary syndrome (SS) and human T lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) in different geographical regions.
Keloids are vexatious swelling on the skin or the conjuctiva. The effects and impacts of these lesions have not been assessed in a keloid endemic environment like Nigeria.
Pemphigus disorders are a group of serious and potentially life-threatening diseases affecting skin and/or mucus membranes. Dexamethasone-cyclophosphamide pulse (DCP) therapy has shown promising results in the management of these diseases.
Pityriasis versicolor (PV) is a mild but recurrent superficial fungal infection of stratum corneum. Many predisposing factors such as late teen and young adulthood age, tropical and subtropical climate (and to a lesser extent temperate climate), immunosuppression, malnutrition, use of oral contraceptives, hyperhidrosis, poor hygiene and a few other factors have been proposed for this condition.
Tracking of various parameters associated with laser hair removal is tedious and time consuming. The currently available mathematical models are not simple enough for physicians to be used as a treatment optimization and patient education tool.
Samples from babies exhibiting clinical symptoms suggestive of congenital infection are referred regularly to NICD, New Delhi,, from Government Hospitals located in Delhi and a home for abandoned children (Palna), for the diagnosis of etiological agents like toxoplasma, rubella, CMV and herpes. Blood samples of mothers of most of the affected babies are also received.
Adverse events (AEs) account for significant morbidity and mortality in elderly. Inappropriate medication usage has been regarded as an important factor contributing to AEs in them. Beers criteria are a set of standard criteria for guiding drug prescription in elderly.
Despite an understanding of the enzymatic pathways leading to bilirubin production and degradation, very few pharmacologic interventions are utilized and the mainstay of treatment remains phototherapy.
Tuberculosis is a disease with a high case fatality of 4.65%.
The vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene is a candidate gene for susceptibility to several diseases. Studies on association between VDR polymorphisms and risk of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) in different ethnic populations are yet inconclusive.
The plant origin capsaicinoids (capsaicin, dihydrocapsaicin, norcapsaicin, dihydrocapsaicin, homocapsaicin, homodihydrocapsaicin) are well known and used as nutritional additive agents in the every day nutritional practice from the last 9,500 years; however, we had have a very little scientifically based knowledge on their chemistry, physiology and pharmacology in animal observations, and in humans up to the mid-twentieth century. Our knowledge about their chemistry, physiology, pharmacology entered to be scientifically based evidence from the year 1980, dominantly in animal observations. The human observations with capsaicin (capsaicinoids), in terms of good clinical practice, have been started only in the last 10-year period (from 1997) in randomized, prospective, multiclinical studies. The name of "capsaicin" used only in the physiological and pharmacological research both in animal experiments and in human observation. The "capsaicin" (as a "chemically" used natural compound) modifies the so-called capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves depending on their applied doses.
The interaction of blood with foreign artificial surfaces during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) has been recognized as a major stimulus in evoking a systemic inflammatory and metabolic response. Phosphorylcholine (PC) is a new-generation coating material designed to ameliorate biocompatibility and thereby to reduce the detrimental interactions of CPB. We studied the effects of PC-coated perfusion circuits on platelet function and the humoral and cellular response to CPB.
Chylothorax after congenital heart surgery (CHD) is a potentially challenging complication. The purpose of this study was to review our experience with the management of chylothorax following congenital heart surgery.
Cerebral injury is a well-known complication after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), especially in adult patients. Specific biochemical markers like neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and S-100beta protein were developed previously for early detecting neuronal damage after CPB. Corticosteroids are shown to reduce multisystemic deleterious effects of cardiopulmonary bypass due to their anti-inflammatory characteristics. The aim of this study is to demonstrate the decrease of serum neuron-specific enolase levels in patients who received corticosteroids before CPB.
Early tracheal extubation is a common goal after cardiac surgery and may improve postoperative outcomes. Our study evaluates the impact of a quality improvement program (QIP) on early extubation, pulmonary complications, and resource utilization after cardiac surgery.
Unroofing of anomalous coronary artery originating from the opposite sinus of Valsalva has become the procedure of choice for this congenital lesion, with surgery performed in children as young as two years old. An increasing number of this anomaly is diagnosed in infancy with no clear indication whether surgical repair should be done in this age group. This paper reviews our experience with this anomaly, and focuses on its surgical management in infants.
Diffuse microvascular bleeding remains a common problem after cardiac procedures. Systemic use of antifibrinolytic reduces the postoperative blood loss. The purpose of this study was to examine the effectiveness of local application of tranexamic acid to reduce blood loss after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
High-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) is a ubiquitous nuclear protein recently recognized as a critical mediator of inflammatory processes. HMGB1 is a novel predictor of adverse postinfarction clinical outcomes, playing a crucial role in the appropriate healing process after myocardial infarction (MI). The present trial is designed in order to reveal the postinfarction HMGB1 expression pattern and its relationship with cardiac remodeling. The effects of an exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation program on HMGB1 expression pattern will be addressed as well.
Hyperoxic preconditioning is known to protect the heart against necrosis and contractile dysfunction, but protection against arrhythmias has not been well characterized.
We speculated that elevated admission cardiac troponin T (cTnT) could predict worse microvascular function in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction who are managed with emergency percutaneous coronary intervention.
The treatment of pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMPs) and appendiceal mucocele (AM) has changed radically. To assess the contribution of preoperative imaging to the treatment strategy and choice of approach, a surgeon and a radiologist different from the initial radiologist examined the files of all patients treated for PMP or AM in four facilities in one district from January 1, 1996, through December 31, 2008.
Recent published studies indicate a possible role for sFlt1 in the development of preeclampsia.
Recurrence of hyperprolactinemia after cabergoline withdrawal ranges widely from 36 to 80%. The Pituitary Society recommends withdrawal of cabergoline in selected patients.
The angiopoietin/Tie system seems to have an important role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. Although Tie-2 is mainly expressed by endothelium, it is also detected in monocytes, which participate in the development of angiogenic and inflammatory phenomena.
Adipose tissue in obesity is thought to be exposed to various stresses, predominantly in intraabdominal depots. We recently reported that p38MAPK and Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), but not ERK and inhibitory-kappaB kinase beta, are more highly expressed and activated in human omental (OM) adipose tissue in obesity.
Mild primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) seems to have a good prognosis, and indications for active treatment (surgery) are widely discussed. The extraskeletal effects of PTH, such as insulin resistance, arterial hypertension, and cardiovascular (CV) risk, may however be reversible by operation.
Decidualization of the endometrium involves the morphological and biochemical reprogramming of the estrogen-primed proliferative endometrial stromal compartment under the continuing influence of progesterone.
Activating mutations in genes encoding the Kir6.2 (KCNJ11) and SUR1 (ABCC8) subunits of the pancreatic ATP-sensitive K(+) channel are a common cause of permanent neonatal diabetes (PNDM). All Kir6.2 mutations identified to date are missense mutations. We describe here a novel in-frame deletion (residues 28-32) in Kir6.2 in a heterozygous patient with PNDM without neurological problems that are detectable by standard evaluation.
PCSK9 is a secreted protein that influences plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and susceptibility to coronary heart disease. PCSK9 is present in human plasma, but the factors that contribute to differences in plasma concentrations of PCSK9 and how they impact on the levels of lipoproteins have not been well-characterized.
Zinc-alpha2-glycoprotein (ZAG) is a 40-kDa circulating glycoprotein secreted from the liver and adipose tissues. Animal studies have demonstrated the role of ZAG as a lipid-mobilizing factor involved in regulating lipid metabolism and adiposity. However, the clinical relevance of these findings remains to be established.
Sex steroids are prominent regulators of pulsatile GH secretion.
Adult women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have decreased GnRH pulse generator sensitivity to progesterone (P)-mediated slowing. This defect is androgen mediated because it is reversed with androgen receptor blockade. Adolescent hyperandrogenism often precedes PCOS.
Lower circulating testosterone concentrations are associated with metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, carotid intima-media thickness, and aortic and lower limb arterial disease in men. However, it is unclear whether lower testosterone levels predict major cardiovascular events.
Arzoxifene, a benzothiophene estrogen agonist/antagonist, is being developed for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and for risk reduction of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women.
Patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH), who may be totally LH deficient, remain the primary clinical model for investigating the physiology of gonadotropin actions on ovarian steroidogenesis and follicular development.
Kruppel-like factor 15 (KLF15) is a newly discovered transcription factor that plays an important role in glucose homeostasis and lipid accumulation in cells. We present evidence for KLF15 as a transcriptional regulator of the human 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 5 gene (HSD17B5) and its potential role in the pathogenesis of hyperandrogenism.
Iodine-induced hyperthyroidism has been reported in the early phases of almost all iodine fortification programs, depending on prior iodine intake in the population, the amount of fortification, and the rate of change.
Endometriosis is a common condition associated with infertility and pelvic pain in women. Recent in vitro studies have shown that statins decrease proliferation of endometrial stroma (ES) and inhibit angiogenesis.
Both GH deficiency (GHD) and GH excess are associated with a decreased quality of life. However, it is unknown whether patients with GHD after treatment for acromegaly have a poorer quality of life than those with normal GH levels after cure of acromegaly.
Testosterone (T) plus progestin combinations are the most promising hormonal male contraceptives. Nestorone (NES), a progestin without estrogenic or androgenic activity, when combined with T may be an excellent candidate for male contraception.
Parenteral iron administration has been associated with hypophosphatemia. Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) has a physiological role in phosphate homeostasis via suppression of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] activation and promotion of phosphaturia. We recently reported a case of iron-induced hypophosphatemic osteomalacia associated with marked FGF23 elevation.
Stress-mediated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation, regulated by arginine vasopressin (AVP), may have a role in the pathophysiology of metabolic syndrome (MetSyn).
Acromegaly is complicated by an increased incidence of diabetes mellitus caused by impaired insulin sensitivity and reduced beta-cell function. Pegvisomant blocks activity at GH receptors, normalizing IGF-I in over 90% of patients and improving insulin sensitivity. The mechanisms for this increase in insulin sensitivity are not fully determined. We used stable isotope techniques to investigate the effects of pegvisomant on glucose and lipid metabolism in acromegaly.
RET is a tyrosine kinase transmembrane receptor expressed in two main alternative isoforms: RET9 and RET51. RET transduces a positive signal leading to survival, differentiation, or migration in the presence of its ligand glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, whereas in its absence a proapoptotic fragment that initiates a negative signaling for apoptosis is generated. The signal transduction mechanisms leading to apoptosis are still unclear.
Prenatal exposure of the male fetus to androgen at wk 8-24 of gestation is essential for expression of male sex-typed behaviors in later life. Another peak of testosterone in male infants is demonstrated 1-5 months postnatally. The significance of this postnatal testosterone on male sex-typed behaviors remains to be elucidated. Bilateral congenital anorchia represents an example of an individual lacking postnatal testosterone. If postnatal testosterone surge is critical for male sex-typed behaviors, differences should be seen in this group of patients in comparison with men with functioning testes.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-delta is a nuclear transcription factor that plays a key role in many metabolic processes, including energy metabolism, and lipid and glucose metabolism. Candidate gene studies have identified a putative functional variant, rs2016520, in the gene encoding PPARdelta (PPARD), which is associated in some studies with metabolic traits. In addition, this single-nucleotide polymorphism was associated with adult height in several whole-genome scans, but this association did not achieve whole genome significance.
The mechanism of IGF2 overexpression in non-islet-cell tumor hypoglycemia is not understood.
Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) results in most cases from mutations of the protein kinase A (PKA) regulatory subunit 1A (PRKAR1A) gene. Patients with PPNAD exhibit a paradoxical increase in cortisol secretion in response to dexamethasone.
The annual death rate of patients with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is high (3%). Many deaths of children are sudden and unexplained. Sleep apneas have been suggested to play a role in sudden deaths. Recently, we discovered that 60% of patients with PWS suffer from central adrenal insufficiency (CAI) during stress.
Real-time continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has been available for type 1 diabetes for several years. This paper is a status report on our early experiences with this next technology.
Increasing serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD) in adults may enhance calcium absorption (Ca-abs). There are few similar pediatric data leading to uncertainty about the optimal target for 25-OHD to maximize Ca-abs.
Type 2 diabetes is associated with higher fracture risk at a given bone mineral density. Advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) accumulate in bone collagen with age and diabetes and may weaken bone.
Dominant activating mutations of the TSH receptor are the cause of familial nonautoimmune hyperthyroidism (FNAH) (inherited mutations affecting the whole gland since embryogenesis) and the majority of hyperfunctioning autonomous adenomas (AAs) (somatic mutations affecting only one cell later in the adulthood).
The serum protein transthyretin (TTR) plays an important role in the transport of thyroid hormone and retinol, which are critical for normal development of the human fetus. TTR is not only synthesized and secreted into the circulation by the liver and other tissues but is also synthesized by placental trophoblasts, which separate the maternal and fetal circulations. Whether it is secreted or taken up by these cells and whether it carries thyroid hormone is unknown.
There is strong evidence that IGF-I and IGF binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), as central mediators of endocrine and finally metabolic or anabolic effects of GH, were associated with increased lung size in acromegaly or a decrease of respiratory muscle pressures in patients with GH deficiency. The aim of the present study was to further clarify the impact of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels on lung volumes and respiratory pressures in a general adult population.
Somatostatin and its related peptide cortistatin exert multiple actions on normal and tumoral tissue targets through a family of receptors termed somatostatin receptor (sst)1-5. Despite the considerable advances in the knowledge on these receptors and their (patho)physiological roles, there is still evidence that additional receptors for these peptides should exist to fully explain their actions.
Bone age rating is associated with a considerable rater variability, which limits its usefulness in modern pediatric endocrinology. An automated computerized method would theoretically solve this problem but has been surprisingly difficult to establish.
Noonan syndrome (NS) is a heterogeneous genetic disorder characterized by short stature.
Klinefelter syndrome (KS) may involve a number of abnormalities besides the characteristic testicular insufficiency. Some studies have suggested that thyroid abnormalities may be common, but this has not been clarified.
The stimulatory effect of teriparatide on bone mineral density (BMD) and bone turnover is initially exuberant, but then diminishes.
PA considered due to bilateral autonomous production of aldosterone is usually treated medically. Unilateral adrenalectomy has been considered ineffective. Because quality outcome data are lacking and medical treatment may cause adverse effects or fail to control hypertension, defining the role for unilateral adrenalectomy in bilateral PA is an important clinical issue.
Recent studies challenge the assumption that hypogonadism in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is due only to hypothalamic dysfunction.
Understanding the role of insulin resistance in type 1 diabetes may lead to new prevention strategies. Estimates of insulin resistance in first-degree relatives of those with type 1 diabetes may be obtained using the minimal model of glucose kinetics incorporating a population approach.
Age-related reduction of serum testosterone may contribute to the signs and symptoms of aging, but previous studies report conflicting evidence about testosterone levels and male mortality. No large prospective cohort study has determined a possible association between serum estradiol and mortality in men.
Body weight has been associated with bone mass and bone size through shared genetic determination and environmental influences. Whereas lean mass exerts a positive influence on bone size, the relationship between fat and bone remains unclear.
It is uncertain how between-meal variations in energy availability and physiological changes in ghrelin, leptin, and insulin affect appetite.
Children with 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21-OHD) need chronic glucocorticoid (cGC) therapy to replace congenital deficit of cortisol synthesis. cGC therapy is the most frequent and severe form of drug-induced osteoporosis, and different mechanisms have been proposed to explain its pathogenesis.
Resistance to GH and IGF-I is a significant complication of severe chronic kidney disease, which contributes to muscle wasting. Pharmacological doses of recombinant human (rh) GH or rhIGF-I have been proposed to treat this catabolic condition.
An increased risk of fracture in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) compared to the general population has been reported, but available data are controversial.
Osteoporosis primarily affects postmenopausal women. However, young women with estrogen deficiency also are at increased risk for low bone density.
Progesterone (P4) promotes its own secretion and the survival of human granulosa/luteal (GL) cells.
Human BOLL is known as a meiotic regulator, and CDC25A is considered as a potential RNA target of BOLL.
Isolated GH deficiency (IGHD) is familial in 5-30% of patients. The most frequent form (IGHD-IB) has autosomal recessive inheritance, and it is known that it can be caused by mutations in the GHRH receptor (GHRHR) gene or in the GH gene. However, most forms of IGHD-IB have an unknown genetic cause. In normal subjects, muscarinic cholinergic stimulation causes an increase in pituitary GH release, whereas its blockade has the opposite effect, suggesting that a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAchR) is involved in stimulating GH secretion. Five types of mAchR (M(1)-M(5)) exist. A transgenic mouse in which the function of the M(3) receptor was selectively ablated in the central nervous system has isolated GH deficiency similar to animals with defective GHRH or GHRHR gene.
HADH encodes for the enzyme 3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (HADH) and catalyses the penultimate reaction in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids. All previously reported patients with mutations in HADH gene and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia (HH) showed raised plasma hydroxybutyrylcarnitine and urinary 3-hydroxyglutarate.
In animal studies, exposure to intrauterine hyperglycemia increases the risk of cardiovascular disease through only partly understood epigenetic mechanisms. Human long-term follow-up studies on the same topic are few.
Although studies show that some perimenopausal women are troubled by sleep problems, little information was found about the subjective experiences of sleep disturbances among these women. Research is required to explore women's feelings or perceptions in dealing with their sleep problems. These understandings will be important to help alleviate perimenopausal women's sleep problems.
The evidence of the effective application of the self-efficacy theory in health-promoting interventions has been well established. Little effort has been made by health professionals to integrate self-efficacy theory into childbirth care.
The handicaps of stroke patients necessitate multidisciplinary rehabilitation, which is aimed at decreasing the consequences of the illness in daily functions. In traditional Chinese medicine, Meridian acupressure has been used for rehabilitation of affected upper extremities of hemiplegia stroke patients in clinical practice.
Music intervention has been evaluated as an appropriate nursing intervention to reduce patients 'pain, stress and anxiety levels in several clinical settings, but its effectiveness in increasing patients' subjective and objective relaxation levels has not been examined.
Parents incorporate folk remedies into the care of sick children in many cultures, including Taiwan. Twelve common folk remedies are commonly used in the Taiwanese culture for the care of sick children.
In view of the growing caring options in Multiple Sclerosis, improvement of quality of life has become increasingly relevant as a caring intervention. Complementary therapies are widely used by multiple sclerosis patients and Progressive Muscle Relaxation Technique is a form of complementary therapies.
Distraction has been noted to be an effective method to help children cope with painful procedures. In the studies carried out, although it was found out that distraction made with different distracters reduced the pain of venipuncture, there is only one study confirming analgesic effect of distracters.
Many empirical studies have found progressive muscle relaxation training beneficial in reducing the psychological effects of anxiety. Progressive muscle relaxation training is also effective in reducing the distress symptoms associated with the symptomatology of schizophrenia.
Arthritis is the most common chronic disease in older people. It may result in pain, stiffness and joint deformity, which ultimately lead to disability. Understanding the factors influencing disability is needed to help arthritis sufferers to achieve optimal health status.
Counselling is a widely studied topic in nursing. Too little is known about counselling in emergency departments and especially about participation of family members and suitability of counselling for the patient's life situation.
In palliative home care, relatives play an important role as carers to seriously ill and dying family members. To improve their quality of life, different support strategies are of importance. Complementary methods, such as soft tissue massage have become an appreciated supplement for these patients. However, only few studies focus on relatives experiences of receiving soft tissue massage as a supplemental support.
Illness perception is an important predictor for adherence to therapeutic regimens. Hypertension is asymptomatic. How the lay views, especially identity and causal attribution, affect the patients' adherence to therapeutic regimens need to be further explored.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus is a tremendously challenging and complex disease for children and families to manage. Therefore, the use of complementary and alternative medicines among children with type 1 diabetes is becoming increasingly popular.
Herbal therapy is a very popular choice for many patients. However, little information is available about herbal product use in renal patients.
Falls are common in older people and prevalence increases with age. Falls prevention is a major policy and service initiative.
Considerable attention has been given to research consequences, quality of life and satisfaction with life in people with traumatic brain injury. Most studies reveal negative aspects of living with traumatic brain injury. Knowledge that provides an understanding of the meaning of feeling well for people with a traumatic brain injury entails the possibility that they could receive support to feel well, despite their injury.
Patients with chronic hepatitis C who have active inflammatory changes on liver biopsy may undergo combination therapy with interferon and ribavirin. For some patients, the adverse effects of combination therapy are so severe that it can potentially place an enormous stress on personal relationships.
A greater degree of patient involvement in self care is increasingly being encouraged; however, little is known about how factors such as perceived control influence patients' active involvement in self care.
Previous research has documented that surgery is associated with increased stress and anxiety, which have an adverse effect on patient outcomes. Few studies have been conducted to obtain patients' perspectives about the influence of the operating theatre environment on anxiety.
In the literature, limited health literacy has been reported to have adverse effect on health outcomes. However, the link between health literacy to health status among Korean older adults needs to be clarified.
It is likely that the attitude of nursing staff can influence recovery from a pregnancy loss and that nurses with positive attitudes to bereavement care can help bereaved parents to cope during their grieving period.
Improved real-time remote visual access to OR may enhance situational awareness but also raises privacy concerns for patients and staff.
There is an increasing global demand for improving sexual health. A better understanding of nursing students' attitude and readiness to work for clients with sexual health concerns is the beginning of this endeavour. The need to explore strategies for developing competent health care practitioners is timely.
Health-related quality of life has repeatedly been reported as decreased in poststroke patients. The vast majority of information on the health-related quality of life of older patients after stroke is based on data collected in Western developed countries. In contrast, little is known about older stroke patients in Asian countries.
Caring for dying patients can be a distressing and sometimes even threatening experience for nurses. Despite the vast body of literature on nurse/patient interaction and the quality of end-of-life care, few studies focus specifically on nurses' experience.
While the number of the older cancer patients has been increasing, there has been little research exploring their needs with respect to psychological adjustment during cancer treatment.
Obesity is a global public health problem. Escalating rates of overweight and obesity are also taking a toll in Asian countries that have historically had much lower rates. Despite the growing prevalence of obesity worldwide, studies show that nurses and other health professionals hold negative attitudes towards obese people, which may affect the care of obese patients.
Nursing increasingly uses grounded theory for a broadened perspective on nursing practice and research. Nurse researchers have choices in how to choose and use grounded theory as a research method. These choices come from a deep understanding of the different versions of grounded theory, including Glaser's classic grounded theory and Strauss and Corbin's later approach.
Elderly patients are particularly vulnerable to inappropriate prescribing, with increased risk of adverse drug reactions and consequently higher rates of morbidity and mortality. A large proportion of inappropriate prescribing is preventable by adherence to prescribing guidelines, suitable monitoring and regular medication review. As a result, screening tools have been developed to help clinicians improve their prescribing.
Calcium levofolinate infusions could be prepared in advance by a centralized intravenous additive service (CIVAS) to improve safety and time management.
Platelet activating factor (PAF), a pro-inflammatory phospholipid, stimulates cytokine secretion from polymorphonuclear leukocytes expressing the transmembrane G-protein coupled PAF receptor. Elevated PAF levels are associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and sepsis severity. The pro-inflammatory effects of PAF are terminated by PAF acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH).
Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy has emerged as a standard of care for small renal masses. Nevertheless, there remains concern over the potential for irreversible insult to the kidney as a result of exposure to warm ischemia. We aim to investigate the utility of selective segmental arterial clamping as a means to reduce the potential for ischemic damage to a solitary kidney during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy utilizing a porcine model.
Closure of the urinary collecting system and renal parenchyma is a technically challenging aspect of laparoscopic nephron-sparing surgery and an obstacle to its more widespread use. A novel barbed polydioxanone suture material Quill self-retaining suture (SRS) (Angiotech Pharmaceuticals) has been introduced for knot-free tissue approximation. We compared the outcomes of Quill SRS versus a conventional technique for kidney and collecting system closure during laparoscopic porcine partial nephrectomy.
Percutaneous renal ablation is often performed under conscious sedation and without contrast-enhanced imaging. We evaluated intermediate-term outcomes of patients undergoing percutaneous contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT)-guided radiofrequency ablation (RFA) under general anesthesia (GA) at two high-volume centers.
No satisfactory biomarkers are currently available to screen for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). We have developed and evaluated surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS) for detection and analysis of multiple proteins for distinguishing individuals with NPC from control individuals.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of death from cancer worldwide. Conventional studies mainly think that insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and IGF-binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) may promote and inhibit tumor growth, respectively. However, there are many different results about their function in some recent epidemiological studies. To evaluate the relationship between circulating serum levels of IGF-I, IGFBP-3 and lung cancer, a systematic review and meta-analysis of the published data was performed.
The existence of large pores in the blood-tumor barrier (BTB) of malignant solid tumor microvasculature makes the blood-tumor barrier more permeable to macromolecules than the endothelial barrier of most normal tissue microvasculature. The BTB of malignant solid tumors growing outside the brain, in peripheral tissues, is more permeable than that of similar tumors growing inside the brain. This has been previously attributed to the larger anatomic sizes of the pores within the BTB of peripheral tumors. Since in the physiological state in vivo a fibrous glycocalyx layer coats the pores of the BTB, it is possible that the effective physiologic pore size in the BTB of brain tumors and peripheral tumors is similar. If this were the case, then the higher permeability of the BTB of peripheral tumor would be attributable to the presence of a greater number of pores in the BTB of peripheral tumors. In this study, we probed in vivo the upper limit of pore size in the BTB of rodent malignant gliomas grown inside the brain, the orthotopic site, as well as outside the brain in temporalis skeletal muscle, the ectopic site.
Hepatic hydrothorax is defined as a significant pleural effusion in patients with liver cirrhosis and without underlying cardiopulmonary diseases. Treatment of hepatic hydrothorax remains a challenge at present.
Conventional microdiskectomy is the most frequently performed surgery for patients with sciatica due to lumbar disk herniation. Transmuscular tubular diskectomy has been introduced to increase the rate of recovery, although evidence is lacking of its efficacy.
isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN51857546.
The effects of reduced-dose schedules of 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV-7) on pneumococcal carriage in children are largely unknown, although highly relevant in the context of subsequent herd effects.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00189020.
Echocardiographic measures of left ventricular (LV) structure and function are heritable phenotypes of cardiovascular disease.
The association of obesity with development of type 2 diabetes may be partly mediated by altered secretion of adipokines by adipose tissue. Greater adiposity down-regulates secretion of adiponectin, an adipokine with anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing properties. The strength and consistency of the relation between plasma adiponectin and risk of type 2 diabetes is unclear.
Chronic inflammation is a key player in pathogenesis. The inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha is a well known inflammatory protein, and has been a therapeutic target for the treatment of diseases such as Rheumatoid Arthritis and Crohn's Disease. Obesity is a well known risk factor for developing non-insulin dependent diabetes melitus. Adipose tissue has been shown to produce tumor necrosis factor-alpha, which has the ability to reduce insulin secretion and induce insulin resistance. Based on these observations, we sought to investigate the impact of unsaturated fatty acids such as oleic acid in the presence of TNF-alpha in terms of insulin production, the molecular mechanisms involved and the in vivo effect of a diet high in oleic acid on a mouse model of type II diabetes, KKAy.
In 2006, a cluster of malaria deaths in the highly endemic Jalpaiguri district, West Bengal, India, led to assignment of additional resources. Malaria deaths decreased, but continued to occur. A study was conducted to identify the risk factors for residual malaria deaths.
The evasion of host immune response by the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum has been linked to expression of a range of variable antigens on the infected erythrocyte surface. Several genes are potentially involved in this process with the var, rif and stevor multigene families being the most likely candidates and coding for rapidly evolving proteins. The high sequence diversity of proteins encoded by these gene families may have evolved as an immune evasion strategy that enables the parasite to establish long lasting chronic infections. Previous findings have shown that the hypervariable region (HVR) of STEVOR has significant sequence diversity both within as well as across different P. falciparum lines. However, these studies did not address whether or not there are ancestral stevor that can be found in different parasites.
Endothelial dysfunction and inflammation play a key role in the development of atherosclerosis. The present study evaluated endothelial function, inflammatory parameters, and carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) in dyslipidemic patients with or without coronary artery disease (CAD).
Manipulating apoptotic resistance represents an important strategy for the treatment of hormone refractory prostate cancer. We hypothesised that the Inhibitor of Apoptosis (IAP) Proteins may be mediating this resistance and knockdown of cIAP-1, cIAP-2 and XIAP would increase sensitivity to apoptosis.
A sudden increase in exercise and energy expenditure is associated with an increase in protein turnover and nitrogen excretion. This study examined how a sudden increase in exercise-induced energy expenditure affected whole body protein metabolism and nitrogen balance in people of differing levels of aerobic fitness. We hypothesized that alterations in whole-body protein turnover would be attenuated, and nitrogen balance would be preserved, in individual with higher levels of aerobic fitness.
Eales disease is an idiopathic obliterative vasculopathy that primarily affects the peripheral retina of young adults. The authors evaluated interleukin 1 beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), Interleukin-10 (IL-10), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in the serum of patients with Eales disease stages for the first time.
AQP1 belongs to aquaporins family, water-specific, membrane-channel proteins expressed in diverse tissues. Recent papers showed that during angiogenesis, AQP1 is expressed preferentially by microvessels, favoring angiogenesis via the increase of permeability In particular, in AQP1 null mice, endothelial cell migration is impaired without altering their proliferation or adhesion. Therefore, AQP1 has been proposed as a novel promoter of tumor angiogenesis.
The three pituitary hormones, viz. prolactin (PRL), growth hormone (GH) and somatolactin (SL), together with the mammalian placental lactogen (PL), constitute a gene family of hormones with similar gene structure and encoded protein sequences. These hormones are believed to have evolved from a common ancestral gene through several rounds of gene duplication and subsequent divergence.
Historically, respiratory infections have had a significant impact on U.S. military missions. Deployed troops are particularly at high risk due to close living conditions, stressful work environments and increased exposure to pathogens. To date, there are limited data available on acute respiratory illness (ARI) among troops deployed in support of ongoing military operations, specifically Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF).
The goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of L-Dopa medication in Parkinson's disease (PD) on brain activation during the performance of a set-shifting task. Using fMRI, we have previously studied the patterns of activity observed in patients with PD after overnight removal of dopaminergic medication compared with control participants during the performance of different stages of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST). The results revealed decreased cortical activity in the PD group compared to controls in the conditions that significantly required striatum, while increased cortical activity was observed when striatum was not involved. However, the effect of dopaminergic medication in PD patients on those patterns of activity has not yet been studied.
Voltage-gated potassium (K(v)) channels are among the earliest ion channels to appear during brain development, suggesting a functional requirement for progenitor cell proliferation and/or differentiation. We tested this hypothesis, using human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs) as a model system.
Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant brain tumour of childhood. The identification of critical genes involved in its pathogenesis will be central to advances in our understanding of its molecular basis, and the development of improved therapeutic approaches.
Linear motifs are short modules of protein sequences that play a crucial role in mediating and regulating many protein-protein interactions. The function of linear motifs strongly depends on the context, e.g. functional instances mainly occur inside flexible regions that are accessible for interaction. Sometimes linear motifs appear as isolated islands of conservation in multiple sequence alignments. However, they also occur in larger blocks of sequence conservation, suggesting an active role for the neighbouring amino acids.
Concern has been expressed that preventive measures in older people might increase frailty by increasing survival without improving health. We investigated the impact of exercise on the probabilities of health improvement, deterioration and death in community-dwelling older people.
Investigation of the mechanisms of guided cell migration can contribute to our understanding of many crucial biological processes, such as development and regeneration. Endogenous and exogenous direct current electric fields (dcEF) are known to induce directional cell migration, however the initial cellular responses to electrical stimulation are poorly understood. Ion fluxes, besides regulating intracellular homeostasis, have been implicated in many biological events, including regeneration. Therefore understanding intracellular ion kinetics during EF-directed cell migration can provide useful information for development and regeneration.
Australia's dinosaurian fossil record is exceptionally poor compared to that of other similar-sized continents. Most taxa are known from fragmentary isolated remains with uncertain taxonomic and phylogenetic placement. A better understanding of the Australian dinosaurian record is crucial to understanding the global palaeobiogeography of dinosaurian groups, including groups previously considered to have had Gondwanan origins, such as the titanosaurs and carcharodontosaurids.
Metabolically active cells require robust mechanisms to combat oxidative stress. The cytoplasmic thioredoxin reductase/thioredoxin (Txnrd1/Txn1) system maintains reduced protein dithiols and provides electrons to some cellular reductases, including peroxiredoxins.
The study aims to determine the role of domestic dogs in transmission of visceral leishmaniasis in eastern Sudan. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 10 villages along the River Rahad in eastern Sudan to elucidate the role of domestic dogs (Canis familiaris, Linnaeus, 1758) as a reservoir host of Leishmania donovani. In this study, 87 dogs were screened for infection by Leishmania donovani. Blood and lymph node samples were taken from 87 and 33 dogs respectively and subsequently screened by the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) test. Additional lymph node smears were processed for microscopy and parasite culture. Host preference of the visceral leishmaniasis (VL) vector in the area, Phlebotomus orientalis, and other sandflies for the Nile rat (Arvicanthis niloticus, E. Geoffrey, 1803), the genet (Genetta genetta, Linnaeus, 1758), the mongoose (Herpeistes ichneumon, Linnaeus, 1758), and the domestic dog were determined by counting numbers of sand flies attracted to CDC traps that were baited by these animals.
Vascular embolization of a projectile discharged from a weapon is a rare event. In this report a hunter's errant gunshot struck a farmer in the left chest.
Infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) experience a high incidence of growth failure in the postoperative period following stage I palliation. Because of an increased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis in this population, clinicians may be reluctant to initiate early enteral feedings. Published guidelines for initiating and advancing enteral feedings in this population are limited.
Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a significant cause of secondary morbidity and mortality in adult trauma patients. No study has characterized VAP in pediatric trauma patients. We determined the rates of and potential risk factors for VAP in pediatric trauma patients.
Antipsychotic treatment dose adjustments may influence treatment outcomes in patients with schizophrenia.
Associations between the well-known functional single nucleotide polymorphism Val (158)Met in the gene encoding catechol- O-methyltransferase (COMT) and cognitive do-mains affected in schizophrenia are inconsistent regarding directionality and specific impact and call for a more fundamental cognitive endophenotype. Recent studies suggest that the COMT genotype contributes to cognitive flexibility, a fundamental cognitive ability that potentially influences an individual's performance in a variety of other neurocognitive tasks.
Combination of antipsychotic substances is a therapeutic option increasingly applied in patients with schizophrenia, who do not respond to antipsychotic monotherapy. Recently, various reports on combination of clozapine with aripiprazole in adults have been published. As there is not yet data on adolescent patients, we aimed to study the above-mentioned augmentation strategy in this population.
Co-morbid medical and psychiatric conditions are common in individuals with schizophrenia. As such, selecting antipsychotic medications with a low potential for drug-drug interactions (DDIs) is crucial, as many are extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes.
As compared with the long variant (L), the short variant (S) of the functional polymorphic region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) has been associated with a lower antidepressant efficacy in major depression, but some replication studies have evidenced contradictory results. Sex differences may explain these contradictory results.
Recent studies have reported large common regions of homozygosity (ROHs) that are the result of autozygosity, that is, the cooccurrence within individuals of long haplotypes that have a high frequency in the population. A recent study reports that such regions are found more commonly in individuals with schizophrenia compared with controls, and identified nine 'risk ROHs' that were individually more common in cases. Of these, four contained or neighboured genes associated with schizophrenia (NOS1AP/UHMK1, ATF2, NSF and PIK3C3).
Experimental evidences show that glutathione and its rate-limiting synthesizing enzyme, the glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL), are involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Furthermore, genetic association has been previously reported between two single nucleotide polymorphisms lying in noncoding regions of glutamate cysteine ligase modifier (GCLM) gene, which specifies for the modifier subunit of GCL and schizophrenia.
Tragic university shootings have prompted administrators of higher education institutions to re-evaluate their emergency preparedness plans and take appropriate measures for preventing and responding to emergencies.
Despite various international efforts initiated to improve maternal health, more than half a million women worldwide die each year as a result of complications arising from pregnancy and childbirth. This research was guided by the following questions: 1) How does women's autonomy influence the choice of place of delivery in resource-poor urban settings? 2) Does its effect vary by household wealth? and 3) To what extent does women's autonomy mediate the relationship between women's education and use of health facility for delivery?
Retinoblastoma (RB) is a childhood ocular malignancy associated with mutations in RB1, a tumor susceptibility gene. Inactivation of both copies of the RB1 gene in a retinal cell is followed by the sequential acquisition of additional genetic changes that define the course to tumor formation.
Intravitreal injection (IVI) with administration of various pharmacological agents is a mainstay of treatment in ophthalmology for endopthalmitis, viral retinitis, age-related macular degeneration, cystoid macular edema, diabetic retinopathy, uveitis, vascular occlusions, and retinal detachment. The indications and therapeutic agents are reviewed in this study.
The Azorean population presents the highest standardized mortality rate for cardiovascular diseases (CVD) when compared to mainland Portugal and other populations. Since thrombosis is a common cause of CVD, we assessed four polymorphisms in three thrombotic risk genes - F5 (G1691A), F2 (G20210A) and MTHFR (C677T, A1298C), in 469 healthy blood donors from So Miguel Island (Azores). We also analysed the CYP2C9 (C430T, A1075C) and VKORC1 (G1639A) variants in fifty-eight individuals with predisposition to thrombosis (possessing at least one variation in F5 or F2 genes and one in MTHFR) to evaluate their warfarin drug response genetic profiles.
The management of thyroid papillary microcarcinoma (PMC) is controversial. Total thyroidectomy, thyroid lobectomy/isthmectomy, and even no treatment have been proposed. We investigated the clinical course and prognostic factors for disease recurrence and distant metastasis in 445 patients with PMC.
The reported incidence of thyroid nodules in children and adolescents is estimated to be between 1% and 2%. However, this incidence may be increasing because diagnostic radiological procedures are detecting incidental thyroid nodules in children. The objective of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (US-FNA) of thyroid nodules in children and adolescents.
The Chernobyl accident resulted in an unprecedented number of radiation-induced thyroid cancers in young individuals as detected by national and international screening programs. The vast majority of thyroid malignancies were papillary carcinomas that, despite being similar by histopathology, displayed large variability in clinical course. The correlations between ultrasound (US) and clinicopathological features in young patients with radiation-induced thyroid cancer, however, have not been well studied. Because of the importance of US for deciding which subjects should have fine-needle aspiration biopsy, we assessed the US features of papillary thyroid carcinoma in patients exposed to Chernobyl fallouts.
The low incidence of thyroid cancer despite the high prevalence of thyroid nodules necessitates a screening tool to determine which patients require surgical management. The utility of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) for this purpose requires a low false-negative (FN) rate and an acceptable sensitivity and specificity for the detection of malignancy. While reviewing our institution's experience with thyroid FNAB, we found significant discrepancies in how statistics of thyroid FNAB were tabulated and reported in the literature. Here we examine the sources of these discrepancies by evaluating large series of thyroid FNAB with regard to cytopathologic reporting and statistical calculation.
It is known that genetic abnormalities in oncogenes and/or tumor suppressor genes promote carcinogenesis. Numerous recent articles, however, have demonstrated that epithelial-stromal interaction also plays a critical role for initiation and progression of carcinoma cells. Furthermore, ionizing radiation induces alterations in the tissue microenvironments that promote carcinogenesis. There is little or no information on epithelial-stromal interaction in thyroid carcinoma cells. The objective of this study was to determine if epithelial-stromal interaction influenced the growth of thyroid carcinoma cells in vivo and in vitro and to determine if radiation had added or interacting effects.
Type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) catalyzes the production of triiodothyronine from thyroxine. D2 is present in rat aorta media, and there is a circadian variation in the D2 expression. In rat aorta media, the D2 activity exhibited the maximal value at 1200 hour and low value between 1800 and 2400 hour. To understand the mechanisms that induce the circadian variation in the D2 expression, we examined the effects of glucocorticoid on the D2 activity and mRNA in rat aorta media and cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs).
New cases of well-differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) are diagnosed more frequently worldwide. We investigated trends and differences in clinical and histological characteristics of new DTC cases presenting in one large center.
Several studies with ambiguous results have examined the effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) on thyroid function. This study aimed to establish the effects of fluoxetine and sertraline treatments on thyroid function and thyroid autoimmunity in patients with major depression and primary hypothyroidism and in patients with major depression and normal thyroid function.
The clinical value of free thyroxine (FT(4)) and free triiodothyronine (FT(3)) analysis depends on the reference intervals with which they are compared. We determined age- and sex-specific reference intervals for neonates, infants, and children 0-18 years of age for FT(4) and FT(3) using tandem mass spectrometry.
Previous in vitro data for several constitutively activating thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) mutations reported divergent results for the constitutive activity of the same mutations. Moreover, several case reports have highlighted the difficulties in determining whether a TSHR mutation is constitutively active or not. Retrospectively, this has repeatedly been the case for mutants with only a slight increase of basal cAMP activity. We re-examined 10 previously described TSHR germline mutations with minor increases of basal cAMP activity and analyzed the influences of the cell line and vector system on the basal receptor activity.
Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is rare but one of the most aggressive human cancers. It carries a dismal prognosis with average survival of 6 months. It is characteristically diagnosed in patients older than 60 years. We report the case of a young patient with ATC, in whom disease-free survival exceeds 2 years, and review the related literature.
Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching has been de-emphasized in the allocation of renal allografts and further discounting is planned in the new United Network of Organ Sharing kidney allocation model. An unforeseen consequence of poorer matching could be increased sensitization for candidates pursuing retransplantation.
Nuclear transfer has been used as a means of selectively modifying the mammalian genome. One possible consequence of this technology is that the oocytes used in nuclear transfer may provide additional antigens by cytoplasmic inheritance of maternally derived, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). These studies examine the potential consequences of such inheritance in a large animal transplantation model.
Encapsulation of cells has the potential to eliminate the need for immunosuppression for cellular transplantation. Recently, the TheraCyte device was shown to provide long-term immunoprotection of murine islets in a mouse model of diabetes. In this report, translational studies were undertaken using skin fibroblasts from an unrelated rhesus monkey donor that were transduced with an HIV-1-derived lentiviral vector expressing firefly luciferase permitting the use of bioluminescence imaging (BLI) to monitor cell survival over time and in a noninvasive manner.
The low efficiency of islet transplantation necessitating sequential transplantations with the use of 2 to 3 donors for a recipient has been a major obstacle facing clinical islet transplantation. We determined whether adenosine has any beneficial effects on preventing early loss of transplanted islets in the liver, thereby facilitating successful islet transplantation from one donor to one recipient in mice.
Body fat accumulation decreases insulin sensitivity. It has being associated with earlier onset of type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) and islet graft failure. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether insulin resistance, characterized by risk factors for type 2 DM, can predict islet graft survival in type 1 DM islet transplant (ITx) recipients.
Hyperlipidemia is a frequent and persistent complication in solid organ transplant recipients, leading to the high occurrence of cardiovascular disease in this patient population. Lipid abnormalities including increased total cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol have been reported frequently in transplantation patients and a variety of immunosuppressive therapies seem to be one of the main factors that influence posttransplant lipidemic profiles. For many years, tacrolimus (TAC) has been used as an immunosuppressive drug in transplantation. The aim of our investigation was to determine the effect of TAC administration on the plasma lipid profile and some key regulatory proteins of plasma lipid metabolism including cholesterol ester transfer protein, hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) within renal transplant patients.
Concerns about delayed graft function (DGF) and wound healing complications with sirolimus has led to suggestions that everolimus introduction could be delayed after transplantation.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of the major infections encountered posttransplantation. UK Guidelines (2003) recommend CMV prophylaxis or screening with preemptive treatment for all high risk recipients. Studies predating the widespread use of CMV prophylaxis have shown that CMV seronegative recipients (R-) receiving a renal allograft from a CMV seropositive donor (D+) have worse outcomes than those avoiding primary CMV infection. Therefore, it has been suggested that CMV matching should be a part of the UK national deceased donor kidney allocation scheme.
The specific role of different immunosuppressive agents as risk factors for BK virus nephropathy (BKN) has not been well studied.
BKV reactivation plays the causative role in the development of BKV-associated nephropathy (BKVAN). Because of the lack of effective therapy, early diagnosis of BKV reactivation is paramount for the prevention of BKVAN. Resting in uroepithelial cells, BKV is excreted first in urine before it can be detected in plasma. The present study analyzed predictive value of BK viruria for the development of BK viremia and its possible advantage for the early BKVAN prediction.
Registry data can be used to examine whether there are differences between individual renal units in the proportion of dialysis patients listed for renal transplantation, to investigate possible reasons for any differences observed, and to discover whether highlighting these anomalies can influence practice.
Transient elastography has recently been suggested to be capable of detecting dynamic changes in stiffness that accompanies acute liver damage. Its feasibility and usefulness in the perioperative period in living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) have not been studied.
The Japanese Liver Transplantation Society presented its first report on donor morbidity in 2003. The Society has been continuing to survey outcomes in living liver donors in Japan.
Pharmacokinetic modeling supports trough monitoring of everolimus, but prospective data comparing this approach versus mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in de novo cardiac transplant recipients are currently unavailable.
Immunologic monitoring of pediatric transplant (Tx) recipients, who are at increased risk of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-driven posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease, is an important goal in clinical transplantation. Here, we investigated the impact of EBV load on T-cell immunity from pediatric Tx recipients, using clinically applicable tests for improved assessment of T-cell immune competence.
Patient-controlled home spirometry (HS) after lung transplantation has been shown to be valid and reliable to detect the presence of graft infection and rejection at its earliest onset. Effects of nonadherence to HS on detection of the bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) and on graft survival are unknown.
To investigate the effect of modern immunosuppression on the incidence, risk factors, morbidity, and mortality of Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) in recipients of kidney transplants.
Some patients will experience more or less benefit from treatment than the averages reported from clinical trials; such variation in therapeutic outcome is termed heterogeneity of treatment effects (HTE). Identifying HTE is necessary to individualize treatment. The degree to which heterogeneity is sought and analyzed correctly in the general medical literature is unknown. We undertook this literature sample to track the use of HTE analyses over time, examine the appropriateness of the statistical methods used, and explore the predictors of such analyses.
A combined measles, mumps, rubella, varicella live vaccine (MMRV, Merck and Co., Inc., US) was recently licensed in the US. Pre-licensure clinical trial data showed a significant increase in fever in days 5-12 following MMRV vaccination as compared to the vaccines given separately (MMR+V). This post-licensure retrospective cohort study was undertaken to assess the incidence of febrile convulsion following MMRV.
Diarrhea is the third leading infectious cause of death worldwide and is estimated to be responsible for approximately 2 million deaths a year. While many infectious causes of diarrhea have been established, approximately 40% of all diarrhea cases are of unknown etiology. In an effort to identify novel viruses that may be causal agents of diarrhea, we used high throughput mass sequencing to analyze stool samples collected from patients with acute diarrhea.
Increasing evidence supports the role of emotional stress in the onset of cardiovascular disease. Although bereavement is a major emotional stress with both acute and more long-term features, the mechanism of its association with cardiovascular risk is not well understood, in particular because of limited studies of acute bereavement. The aim of the study was to identify psychological and behavioural changes in acute bereavement and potential modifiers of these changes.
the long-term outcomes of wartime transtibial amputations have not been well documented. The purpose of this case series is to present the long-term functional, social, and psychological outcomes of modern-day military unilateral transtibial amputees.
Subjects with drug hypersensitivity are sometimes simultaneously reactive to several drugs. This nosological entity is defined as multiple drug hypersensivity (MDH). Urticaria and angioedema are the commonest clinical manifestations of hypersensitivity drug reactions (HDR). These clinical signs are also pathognomonic of chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU), whose pathogenetic mechanisms are still largely unknown. The diagnostic algorithm of CIU includes autologous serum skin test (ASST) and autologous plasma skin test (APST), which demonstrated a high positive and negative predictive value, in multiple nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) intolerance.
the city of Milan introduced a traffic charging zone in city center in January 2008, named Ecopass.
Root canal obturation can be time consuming and complicated. GuttaFlow is suggested for use with a simple, single cone obturating technique.
Often the powder liquid (P/L) ratio of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) resins is changed to modify the handling properties of the material. While it is known that this may influence the mechanical properties of unreinforced PMMA resin, little is known about its effect on fibre reinforced resin.
Although obesity in pregnancy continues to be associated with ongoing health problems, many clinicians have been reluctant to place nondiabetic, obese, pregnant women on a monitored, calorie-appropriate nutritional regimen for fear of fetal growth restriction, low birth weight, or starvation ketosis.
Inadequate calcium intake is more common among women belonging to racial and ethnic minorities. This study examined the patterns and characteristics associated with calcium supplement use or nonuse among African American women, and the potential impact of physician recommendation on calcium supplementation.
Uterine myomas are the most frequently occurring neoplasms in the female pelvis, presenting in approximately one-third of women. Fewer than half develop menstrual abnormalities, pelvic pain, and discomfort. Large myomas may compromise fertility. These tumors very rarely occur in the pediatric and adolescent population. When suspected on examination, careful evaluation is necessary to distinguish the tumor from an adnexal lesion.
The number of procedures available to pediatric residency trainees is few in number and patient size leaves little margin for error. Artificial simulation labs have not been developed for neonatal chest tubes. Use of live animal models is coming under increased scrutiny and is expensive.
A vestibulospinal test known as the Fukuda stepping test (FST) has been suggested to be a measure of asymmetrical labyrinthine function. However, an extensive review of the performance of this test to identify a peripheral vestibular lesion has not been reported.
While several studies have investigated the presence and annoyance of tinnitus in cochlear implant (CI) recipients, few studies have probed the handicap experienced in association with tinnitus in this population.
Data suggest that having high expectations about hearing aids results in better overall outcome. However, some have postulated that excessively high expectations will result in disappointment and thus poor outcome. It has been suggested that counseling patients with unrealistic expectations about hearing aids prior to fitting may be beneficial. Data, however, are mixed as to the effectiveness of such counseling, in terms of both changes in expectations and final outcome.
High-risk human papillomaviruses (HPV) are the main etiological factor of cervical cancer. Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 (CIN 3) is the latest pre-invasive stage of cervical cancer, with an approximately 20% progression rate to invasive cervical carcinoma.
Malaria remains one of the most important tropical diseases of human with 1-2 million deaths annually especially caused by P. falciparum. During malarial life cycle, they exposed to many environmentally stresses including wide temperature fluctuation and pharmacological active molecules. These trigger malarial evolutionarily adaptive responses. The effect of febrile temperature on malarial growth, development and drug susceptibility by mimicking patient in treatment failure before and after drug uptake was examined.
Mentha longifolia L. (Lamiaceae) leaves have been traditionally implemented in the treatment of minor sore throat and minor mouth or throat irritation by the indigenous people of Iraq, although the compounds responsible for the medicinal properties have not been identified. In the present study, an antimicrobial compound was isolated and characterized, and its biological activity was assessed.
Current microRNA (miRNA) research in progress has engendered rapid accumulation of expression data evolving from microarray experiments. Such experiments are generally performed over different tissues belonging to a specific species of metazoan. For disease diagnosis, microarray probes are also prepared with tissues taken from similar organs of different candidates of an organism. Expression data of miRNAs are frequently mapped to co-expression networks to study the functions of miRNAs, their regulation on genes and to explore the complex regulatory network that might exist between Transcription Factors (TFs), genes and miRNAs. These directions of research relating miRNAs are still not fully explored, and therefore, construction of reliable and compatible methods for mining miRNA co-expression networks has become an emerging area. This paper introduces a novel method for mining the miRNA co-expression networks in order to obtain co-expressed miRNAs under the hypothesis that these might be regulated by common TFs.
Copy number variations (CNVs) may play an important role in disease risk by altering dosage of genes and other regulatory elements, which may have functional and, ultimately, phenotypic consequences. Therefore, determining whether a CNV is associated or not with a given disease might be relevant in understanding the genesis and progression of human diseases. Current stage technology give CNV probe signal from which copy number status is inferred. Incorporating uncertainty of CNV calling in the statistical analysis is therefore a highly important aspect. In this paper, we present a framework for assessing association between CNVs and disease in case-control studies where uncertainty is taken into account. We also indicate how to use the model to analyze continuous traits and adjust for confounding covariates.
Analysis of allelic variation for relevant genes and monitoring chromosome segment transmission during selection are important approaches in plant breeding and ecology. To minimize the number of required molecular markers for this purpose is crucial due to cost and time constraints. To date, software for identification of the minimum number of required markers has been optimized for human genetics and is only partly matching the needs of plant scientists and breeders. In addition, different software packages with insufficient interoperability need to be combined to extract this information from available allele sequence data, resulting in an error-prone multi-step process of data handling.
Aggressive behavior in animals is important for survival and reproduction. Identifying the underlying genes and environmental contexts that affect aggressive behavior is important for understanding the evolutionary forces that maintain variation for aggressive behavior in natural populations, and to develop therapeutic interventions to modulate extreme levels of aggressive behavior in humans. While the role of neurotransmitters and a few other molecules in mediating and modulating levels of aggression is well established, it is likely that many additional genetic pathways remain undiscovered. Drosophila melanogaster has recently been established as an excellent model organism for studying the genetic basis of aggressive behavior. Here, we present the results of a screen of 170 Drosophila P-element insertional mutations for quantitative differences in aggressive behavior from their co-isogenic control line.
Transcriptome sequencing using next-generation sequencing platforms will soon be competing with DNA microarray technologies for global gene expression analysis. As a preliminary evaluation of these promising technologies, we performed deep sequencing of cDNA synthesized from the Microarray Quality Control (MAQC) reference RNA samples using Roche's 454 Genome Sequencer FLX.
Tuberculosis is highly prevalent in Laos (289 per 100,000). We evaluated the risk of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) among children (0-15 years) living with tuberculosis patients in rural northern Laos.
The increased severity of disease associated with the NAP1 strain of Clostridium difficile has been attributed to mutations to the tcdC gene which codes for a negative regulator of toxin production. To assess the role of hyper-production of Toxins A and B in clinical isolates of Clostridium difficile, two NAP1-related and five NAP1 non-related strains were compared.
There has been comparatively little consideration of the impact that the changes to undergraduate curricula might have on postgraduate academic performance. This study compares the performance of graduates by UK medical school and gender in the Multiple Choice Question (MCQ) section of the first part of the Fellowship of the Royal College of Anaesthetists (FRCA) examination.
The evaluation of academic research performance is nowadays a priority issue. Bibliometric indicators such as the number of publications, total citation counts and h-index are an indispensable tool in this task but their inherent association with the size of the research output may result in rewarding high production when evaluating institutions of disparate sizes. The aim of this study is to propose an indicator that may facilitate the comparison of institutions of disparate sizes.
Corticosteroid injection and physiotherapy are two commonly prescribed interventions for management of lateral epicondylalgia. Corticosteroid injections are the most clinically efficacious in the short term but are associated with high recurrence rates and delayed recovery, while physiotherapy is similar to injections at 6 weeks but with significantly lower recurrence rates. Whilst practitioners frequently recommend combining physiotherapy and injection to overcome harmful effects and improve outcomes, study of the benefits of this combination of treatments is lacking. Clinicians are also faced with the paradox that the powerful anti-inflammatory corticosteroid injections work well, albeit in the short term, for a non-inflammatory condition like lateral epicondylalgia. Surprisingly, these injections have not been rigorously tested against placebo injections. This study primarily addresses both of these issues.
Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Register ACTRN12609000051246.
The study aimed to prospectively observe the clinical and neuroimaging features of pontine infarction with pure motor hemiparesis (PMH) or hemiplegia at early stage.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that chronic very mild prenatal carbon monoxide (CO) exposure (25 parts per million) subverts the normal development of the rat cerebellar cortex. Studies at this chronic low CO exposure over the earliest periods of mammalian development have not been performed to date. Pregnant rats were exposed chronically to CO from gestational day E5 to E20. In the postnatal period, rat pups were grouped as follows: Group A: prenatal exposure to CO only; group B: prenatal exposure to CO then exposed to CO from postnatal day 5 (P5) to P20; group C: postnatal exposure only, from P5 to P20, and group D, controls (air without CO). At P20, immunocytochemical analyses of oxidative stress markers, and structural and functional proteins were assessed in the cerebellar cortex of the four groups. Quantitative real time PCR assays were performed for inducible (iNOS), neuronal (nNOS), and endothelial (eNOS) nitric oxide synthases.
Recent research has implicated deficits of the working memory (WM) and attention in dyslexia. The N100 component of event-related potentials (ERP) is thought to reflect attention and working memory operation. However, previous studies showed controversial results concerning the N100 in dyslexia. Variability in this issue may be the result of inappropriate match up of the control sample, which is usually based exclusively on age and gender.
Vitiligo is a chronic pigmentary disorder of the skin, affecting 1-2% of the general population. Although not life threatening, vitiligo may considerably influence patients' health-related quality of life (QoL) and psychological well-being. Willingness-to-pay (WTP) is a construct reflecting disease burden and QoL reduction which has not yet been used in vitiligo.
Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) is an approved palliative treatment for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). The THERAKOS CELLEX (continuous flow separation) system (Therakos, Exton, PA, U.S.A.) has been developed from the current THERAKOS UVAR XTS system. It is designed to reduce treatment times and extracorporeal volumes, and allows the use of either a single- or a dual-needle configuration.
Vitiligo affects around 0.5% of the population. The burden of disease perceived by patients seems to be underestimated by the medical community.
Only about 30 cases of borrelial lymphocytoma (BL) with identification of the causative species of Borrelia have been published to date, mainly from Eastern or Central European countries.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a popular treatment for nonmelanoma skin cancer with clearance rates of between 70% and 100%. Although reported to have a superior cosmetic outcome, the inconvenience of hospital visits and discomfort during therapy are considered drawbacks.
Atopic eczema (AE) is a common multifactorial chronic skin disease associated with a defective skin barrier and increased susceptibility to skin infections. The human cathelicidin LL-37 plays a role in the host defence of skin. Studies have demonstrated deficient expression of LL-37 in skin of AE patients.
A noninvasive method using microscopy and spectroscopy for analysing the morphology of collagen and elastin and their biochemical variations in skin tissue will enable better understanding of the pathophysiology of hypertrophic scars and facilitate improved clinical management and treatment of this disease.
Hair follicle (HF) ostia represent a potential port of microbial entry into the skin. However, they rarely show clinical signs of infection. This suggests the presence of local, efficient, antimicrobial defence systems, which may include antimicrobial peptides (AMPs).
CD30 is expressed in various types of cutaneous lymphomas, including lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP), primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma (C-ALCL), some cases of mycosis fungoides showing large cell transformation (MF-TR) and skin localizations of systemic anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive or ALK-negative ALCL. Differentiation between these entities is often not possible on the basis of histology alone, but several markers, including TRAF1, MUM1 and BCL2, have been reported to provide additional diagnostic information.
Vitiligo is a common depigmenting disorder resulting from the loss of functional melanocytes in the skin. It is hypothesized to be of autoimmune origin. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL) plays an important role in innate immunity. It helps in the clearance of apoptotic cells and in complement activation. Genetic variability due to structural and promoter polymorphisms in the MBL2 gene has been reported to be associated with increased risk for several autoimmune diseases including vitiligo.
Photographic severity scales depicting facial wrinkling are used extensively to assess the severity of skin ageing features, but they have been poorly investigated for their reproducibility.
Nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) has been linked to cutaneous human papillomaviruses of the genus beta (betaPV).
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory disease associated with changes in stratum corneum (SC) structure and function. The breakdown of epidermal barrier function in AD is associated with changes in corneocyte size and maturation, desquamation, lipid profiles, and some protease activities.
Cutaneous lymphomas rarely occur in children and adolescents, and are mostly of the T-cell lineage. Low-grade primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma (CBCL) is extremely rare in individuals under 18 years old. Only 11 patients under 20 years old have been reported in the literature.
Current topical therapies for scalp psoriasis are difficult or unpleasant to apply, resulting in decreased adherence and efficacy.
Malignant lymphoma is occasionally complicated by ichthyosiform eruptions.
The workplace assessments, direct observation of procedural skills (DOPS), mini-clinical evaluation exercise (mini-CEX) and multisource feedback (MSF, formerly known as 360 degrees appraisal), are now mandatory during dermatology specialist training in the U.K. The opinions of those undergoing such assessments in any medical specialty have rarely been sought.
Patch test reactivity to nickel varies over time. To what extent this variation is associated with fluctuations in the T-cell reactivity to nickel is not known.
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare neuroendocrine malignancy of the skin first described by Toker as 'trabecular carcinoma of the skin' in 1972. To date, the origin of the tumour cells still remains unclear.
Warts are very common in primary schoolchildren. However, knowledge on wart epidemiology and causes of wart transmission is scarce.
The prevalence of sensitization to fragrance mix (FM) I and Myroxylon pereirae (MP, balsam of Peru) has decreased in recent years among Danish women with dermatitis.
Dermatological surgery is carried out by a variety of practitioners in primary and secondary care.
There is growing evidence that inflammation may exacerbate cancer metastasis and several clinical studies show that taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs appears to reduce metastases.
National Cancer Institutes (NCI) designated cancer centers use one of three organizational structures. The hypothesis of this study is that there are differences in the amount of annual NCI funding per faculty member based on a cancer center's organizational structure. The study also considers the impact of secondary factors (i.e., the existence of a clinical program, the region and the size of the city in which the cancer center is located) on funding and the number of Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) investigators at each cancer center.
Oseltamivir, a specific influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, is an effective treatment for seasonal influenza. Emergence of drug-resistant influenza viruses after treatment has been reported, particularly in children in Japan, where the dosing schedule is different from that used throughout the rest of the world. We investigated the emergence of drug-resistant infection in children treated with a tiered weight-based dosing regimen.
Human cathelicidin antimicrobial protein (hCAP18) is an antimicrobial and immunomodulatory peptide that has pleiotropic effects and is transcriptionally regulated by vitamin D. Because the administration of vitamin D analogues has been linked to decreased mortality among patients with end-stage renal disease, we hypothesized that low hCAP18 levels would identify those who are at increased risk of death attributable to infection while undergoing hemodialysis.
Vancomycin is the only US Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for treatment of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). Metronidazole has been widely used for this purpose but may be inferior to vancomycin, especially for hospitalized patients with severe disease. We report a prospective, double-blind, randomized controlled trial comparing nitazoxanide with vancomycin for treatment of CDI.
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00384527.
The benefits of breast-feeding for the prevention of infection in infants and young children have been widely recognized, but epidemiologic studies regarding the role of breast-feeding in protecting against Helicobacter pylori infection have produced conflicting results.
Rifampin is used as adjunctive therapy for Clostridium difficile-associated disease, and the drug's derivative, rifaximin, has emerged as an attractive antimicrobial for treatment of C. difficile-associated disease. Rifampin resistance in C. difficile strains has been reported to be uncommon.
The recent Infectious Disease Society of America/American Thoracic Society guidelines for the management of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults defined a predictive rule to identify patients with severe CAP to determine the need for intensive care unit (ICU) admission. We clinically validated this rule.
The efficacy of various antiretroviral (ARV) therapy regimens for human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) infection remains unclear. HIV-2 is intrinsically resistant to the nonnucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors and to enfuvirtide and may also be less susceptible than HIV-1 to some protease inhibitors (PIs). However, the mutations in HIV-2 that confer ARV resistance are not well characterized.
Japanese encephalitis is associated with high rates of mortality and disabling sequelae. To date, no specific antiviral has proven to be of benefit for this condition. We attempted to determine the efficacy of oral ribavirin treatment for reducing early mortality among children with Japanese encephalitis in Uttar Pradesh, India.
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00216268 .
Mannose-binding lectin (MBL) is an important mediator of innate immunity and is synthesized primarily by the liver. Low MBL levels are common, are due primarily to polymorphisms in the gene encoding MBL (MBL2), and are associated with an increased risk of infection, particularly when immunity is compromised. We report a large, retrospective study that examined the association between MBL status and clinically significant infection following orthotopic liver transplantation.
Antimicrobial drugs used in human infection treatment and animal husbandry may select for drug-resistant bacterial pathogens, which are increasingly observed worldwide. We sought to examine the extent to which identical mobile drug resistance elements are shared across common pathogens isolated from human and animal sources.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently recommended the expansion of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibody testing. However, antibody tests have longer "window periods" after HIV acquisition than do nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs).
Although gatifloxacin is no longer available, other fluoroquinolones may significantly interfere with glucose homeostasis. The objective of the present study was to compare the risk of severe hypo- and hyperglycemia in a cohort of patients treated with gatifloxacin, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, or azithromycin.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, malnutrition, and invasive bacterial infection (IBI) are reported among children with severe malaria. However, it is unclear whether their cooccurrence with falciparum parasitization and severe disease happens by chance or by association among children in areas where malaria is endemic.
Escherichia coli O157:H7 (O157) is the Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) serotype most frequently isolated and most often associated with hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in the United States. Non-O157 STEC serotypes can also cause serious illness, but their impact as pathogens remains undefined. We compared characteristics of non-O157 and O157 STEC infections identified through sentinel surveillance.
The United States Food and Drug Administration requires clinical trial noninferiority margins to preserve a fraction (eg, 50%) of the established comparator drug's efficacy versus placebo. Lack of placebo-controlled trials for many infections complicates noninferiority margin justification for and, hence, regulatory review of new antimicrobial agents. Noninferiority margin clarification is critical to enable new antimicrobial development. In the absence of placebo-controlled trials, we sought to define the magnitude of efficacy of antimicrobial agents and resulting noninferiority margins for studies of complicated skin and skin-structure infection (SSSI).
We endeavored to construct a simple score based entirely on epidemiological and clinical variables that would stratify patients who require hospital admission because of community-acquired pneumonia into groups with a low or high risk of developing bacteremia.
Primary pneumonic plague is a rare but often fatal form of Yersinia pestis infection that results from direct inhalation of bacteria and is potentially transmissible from person to person. We describe a case of primary pneumonic plague in a wildlife biologist who was found deceased in his residence 1 week after conducting a necropsy on a mountain lion.
Persistent methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteremia is associated with high mortality rates, but no treatment strategy has yet been established. We performed this study to evaluate the efficacy of linezolid with or without carbapenem in salvage treatment for persistent MRSA bacteremia.
The monitoring of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection who are treated with antiretroviral medications in resource-limited settings is typically performed by use of clinical and immunological criteria. The early identification of first-line antiretroviral treatment failure is critical to prevent morbidity, mortality, and drug resistance. Misclassification of failure may result in premature switching to second-line therapy.
Limited data exist describing the clinical outcome and immunological response primed during simultaneously acquired acute hepatitis C virus (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) coinfection. We present detailed clinical and immunological analysis of 3 individuals after concomitant infection with acute HCV and primary HIV.
Transmission of Entamoeba histolytica generally occurs by fecal excretion of cysts followed by oral ingestion of contaminated food or water. However, fecal-oral transmission may occur within households and long-term care institutions, and sexual transmission occurs among men who have sex with men. Epidemiologically linked clusters of E. histolytica infection are rare in industrialized countries. We report such a sexually linked cluster in Canada.
Intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis is currently given to mothers who test positive for group B streptococcus (GBS) by antenatal culture-based screening, with a risk-based approach for cases with an unknown GBS status. A rapid real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for the detection of GBS became available recently, making intrapartum screening possible. We aimed to assess its diagnostic accuracy and to compare it with antenatal screening.
Nosocomial transmission of group A streptococcus (GAS) has been well described. Instances resulting in fulminant disease among health care workers have not been described. Contact and droplet precautions have been advised to minimize the risk of nosocomial transmission. We aimed to determine whether a case of invasive GAS pneumonia and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome in a respiratory therapist was acquired as a result of caring for a patient with GAS necrotizing fasciitis. Contacts of these patients were screened to determine if they were the reservoir of the GAS. Genetic testing to confirm clonal transmission was conducted.
It is not known how long children with Haemophilus influenzae serotype b (Hib) vaccine failure retain protective Hib antibody concentrations after infection. The objective of this study was to determine Hib antibody concentrations in children several years after infection and to identify risk factors for low antibody concentrations.
Many species of the genus Inocybe (family Cortinariaceae, higher Basidiomycetes) are muscarine-containing mycorrhizal mushrooms, ubiquitous around the world. The few published reports on the poisonous Inocybe mushrooms are often limited by the inadequate identification of the species. The clinical course of patients with typical muscarinic manifestations, in whom Inocybe spp. was unequivocally identified, is reported.
Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) is a complicated medical condition with treatment regimens that traditionally have included methadone and other opioids, barbiturates, and benzodiazepines. We describe a case series in which clonidine was used for the prevention and management of patients with NAS.
Acute cocaine poisoning causes neuroexcitation and can be fatal. The toxic effects of cocaine can be attenuated by antagonists of serotonin, muscarinic cholinergic, and dopamine receptors. Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic medication, is an antagonist of these receptors. The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of olanzapine pretreatment for attenuation of acute cocaine toxicity using a mouse model.
Paracetamol poisoning is a major health problem worldwide. Limitation of pack size is an approach increasingly advocated to reduce rates of suicide and serious self-harm from this agent. The United Kingdom adopted such a policy in 1998, restricting non-pharmacy sales to 8 g and pharmacy to pack sizes of 16 g.
In early 2006, government and media sources reported that crime syndicates were mixing fentanyl with heroin. This was followed by an increase in heroin overdoses and opiate-related deaths. The most recent fentanyl outbreak illustrated the need for identifying and establishing effective and responsive real-time surveillance tools to monitor drug overdoses in the United States.
Cannabis is the most widely used illicit drug worldwide. As societies reconsider the legal status of cannabis, policy makers and clinicians require sound knowledge of the acute and chronic effects of cannabis. This review focuses on the latter.
Diethylene glycol (DEG) is a clear, colorless, practically odorless, viscous, hygroscopic liquid with a sweetish taste. In addition to its use in a wide range of industrial products, it has also been involved in a number of prominent mass poisonings spanning back to 1937. Despite DEG's toxicity and associated epidemics of fatal poisonings, a comprehensive review has not been published.
Most of the documented cases of DEG poisoning have been epidemics (numbering over a dozen) where DEG was substituted in pharmaceutical preparations. More often, these epidemics have occurred in developing and impoverished nations where there is limited access to intensive medical care and quality control procedures are substandard.
Organophosphorus pesticides and nerve agents are highly toxic to humans and other living organisms, primarily because of their interaction with enzyme acetylcholinesterase. The aim of our study was to find suitable reactivators of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and to recommend the most efficacious compounds for the next evaluation as antidotes for intoxication by pesticides.
Few epidemiological studies have investigated the problem of children and adolescents taken to hospital with acute alcohol intoxication.
Problems associated with the increasing abuse of plant-derived psychoactive substances have recently attracted attention. This study involved bioanalytical and clinical examinations of intoxication cases suspected to be linked to such plant materials.
Effective communication has been shown to be essential to physician-patient communication and may be even more critical for poison control center (PCC) calls because of the absence of visual cues, the need for quick and accurate information exchange, and possible suboptimal conditions such as call surges. Professionals who answer poison control calls typically receive extensive training in toxicology but very little formal training in communication.
Nonradioactive cesium chloride (CsCl) is used by some alternative medicine advocates as a treatment for cancer. The therapy was proven to be neither safe nor effective. Chronic use of CsCl has resulted in cases with severe cardiotoxicity.
Inhalation injury can be thermal and/or chemical. We report bilateral pneumothorax following acute inhalation injury.
Ingestion of toxic plant constituents still poses a challenge in clinical management. The amount of berries ingested is often unclear and in the case of Atropa belladonna may affect clinical outcome. Plasma levels of atropine may thus be useful in confirming the cause of intoxication.
Expectant management of the third stage of labour involves allowing the placenta to deliver spontaneously or aiding by gravity or nipple stimulation. Active management involves administration of a prophylactic oxytocic before delivery of the placenta, and usually early cord clamping and cutting, and controlled cord traction of the umbilical cord.
Poor interprofessional collaboration (IPC) can negatively affect the delivery of health services and patient care. Interventions that address IPC problems have the potential to improve professional practice and healthcare outcomes.
Respiratory failure due to lung immaturity is a major cause of mortality in preterm infants. Although the use of intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) in neonates with respiratory failure saves lives, its use is associated with lung injury and chronic lung disease (CLD). A newer form of ventilation called high frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) has been shown to result in less lung injury in experimental studies.
The introduction of enteral feeds for very low birth weight (VLBW) infants is often delayed due to concern that early introduction may not be tolerated and may increase the risk of necrotising enterocolitis. However, enteral fasting may diminish the functional adaptation of the immature gastrointestinal tract and prolong the need for parenteral nutrition with its attendant infectious and metabolic risks. Early trophic feeding, giving infants very small volumes of milk during the first week after birth, may promote intestinal maturation, enhance feeding tolerance and decrease time to reach full enteral feeding independently of parenteral nutrition.
Isolated fractures of the shaft of the ulna, which are often sustained when the forearm is raised to shield against a blow, are generally treated on an outpatient basis.
The addition of radiotherapy (RT) following breast conserving surgery (BCS) was first shown to reduce the risk of ipsilateral recurrence in the treatment of invasive breast cancer. Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is a pre-invasive lesion. Recurrence of ipsilateral disease following BCS can be either DCIS or invasive breast cancer. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) have shown that RT can reduce the risk of recurrence, but assessment of potential long-term complications from addition of RT following BSC for DCIS has not been reported for women participating in RCTs.
Post-extubation stridor may prolong length of stay in the intensive care unit, particularly if airway obstruction is severe and re-intubation proves necessary. Some clinicians use corticosteroids to prevent or treat post-extubation stridor, but corticosteroids may be associated with adverse effects ranging from hypertension to hyperglycaemia, so a systematic assessment of the efficacy of this therapy is indicated.
Tobacco smoking in pregnancy remains one of the few preventable factors associated with complications in pregnancy, low birthweight, preterm birth and has serious long-term health implications for women and babies. Smoking in pregnancy is decreasing in high-income countries and increasing in low- to middle-income countries and is strongly associated with poverty, low educational attainment, poor social support and psychological illness.
The opportunity to improve care by delivering decision support to clinicians at the point of care represents one of the main incentives for implementing sophisticated clinical information systems. Previous reviews of computer reminder and decision support systems have reported mixed effects, possibly because they did not distinguish point of care computer reminders from e-mail alerts, computer-generated paper reminders, and other modes of delivering 'computer reminders'.
Leptospirosis is an infectious disease transmitted by animals. Death occurs in about five per cent of the patients. In clinical practice, doxycycline is widely used for prevention.
Decision aids prepare people to participate in 'close call' decisions that involve weighing benefits, harms, and scientific uncertainty.
This review updates a 1999 Cochrane review showing that ibuprofen at various doses was effective in postoperative pain in single dose studies designed to demonstrate analgesic efficacy. New studies have since been published. Ibuprofen is one of the most widely used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) analgesics both by prescription and as an over-the-counter medicine. Ibuprofen is used for acute and chronic painful conditions.
Sustained elevated blood pressure, unresponsive to lifestyle measures, leads to a critically important clinical question: What class of drug to use first-line? This review answers that question.
For more than fifty years, low protein diets have been proposed to patients with kidney failure. However, the effects of these diets in preventing severe kidney failure and the need for maintenance dialysis have not been resolved.
Influenza is a highly infectious viral disease that is particularly common in the winter months. Oscillococcinum is a patented, commercially available homoeopathic medicine. The rationale for its use in influenza comes from the homoeopathic principle of 'let like be cured by like'. This medicine is manufactured from wild duck heart and liver, which are said to be reservoirs for influenza viruses.
Managed withdrawal is a necessary step prior to drug-free treatment or as the end point of substitution treatment.
Hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets (HELLP) syndrome is a severe form of pre-eclampsia. Pre-eclampsia is a multi-system disease of pregnancy associated with an increase in blood pressure and increased perinatal and maternal morbidity and mortality. Eighty per cent of women with HELLP syndrome present before term. There are suggestions from observational studies that steroid treatment in HELLP syndrome may improve disordered maternal hematological and biochemical features and perhaps perinatal mortality and morbidity.
Studies have shown that interventions which reduce total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels also reduce coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke events in those with a history of CHD. However, it is uncertain whether treatment to alter cholesterol levels can prevent recurrence of either stroke or subsequent cardiovascular events and whether differences in outcomes exist between classes of lipid-lowering therapy. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2002.
Methadone maintenance was the first widely used opioid replacement therapy to treat heroin dependence, and it remains the best-researched treatment for this problem. Despite the widespread use of methadone in maintenance treatment for opioid dependence in many countries, it is a controversial treatment whose effectiveness has been disputed.
Muscle weakness in old age is associated with physical function decline. Progressive resistance strength training (PRT) exercises are designed to increase strength.
Oxycodone is a strong opioid agonist used to treat severe pain. It is commonly combined with milder analgesics such as paracetamol. This review updates a previous review that concluded, based on limited data, that all doses of oxycodone exceeding 5 mg, with or without paracetamol, provided analgesia in postoperative pain, but with increased incidence of adverse events compared with placebo. Additional new studies provide more reliable estimates of efficacy and harm.
The steroid hormone, progesterone, inhibits contractions of the pregnant uterus at all gestations. Antiprogestins (including mifepristone) have been developed to antagonise the action of progesterone, and have a recognised role in medical termination of early or mid-trimester pregnancy. Animal studies have suggested that mifepristone may also have a role in inducing labour in late pregnancy.
Pulmonary disease is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in term and near term infants. Conventional ventilation (CV) has been used for many years but may lead to lung injury, require the subsequent use of more invasive treatment such as extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), or result in death. There are some observational studies indicating that high frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) may be more effective in these infants as compared to CV.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterised by anovulation, hyperandrogaenemia and insulin resistance. Hyperinsulinaemia is associated with an increase in cardiovascular risk and the development of diabetes mellitus. If insulin sensitising agents such as metformin are effective in treating features of PCOS, then they could have wider health benefits than just treating the symptoms of the syndrome.
Fracture of the distal radius is a common clinical problem, particularly in older white women with osteoporosis.
The Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is an age-specific disorder, characterised by epileptic seizures, a characteristic electroencephalogram (EEG), psychomotor delay and behaviour disorders. It occurs more frequently in males and onset is usually before the age of eight, with a peak between three and five years. Late cases occurring in adolescence and early adulthood have rarely been reported. Language is frequently affected, with both slowness in ideation and expression in addition to difficulties of motor dysfunction. Severe behavioural disorders (for example hyperactivity, aggressiveness and autistic tendencies) and personality disorders are nearly always present. There is also a tendency for psychosis to develop with time. The long-term prognosis is poor; although the epilepsy often improves, complete seizure freedom is rare and conversely the mental and psychiatric disorders tend to worsen with time.
Gestational diabetes (GDM) affects 3% to 6% of all pregnancies. Women are often intensively managed with increased obstetric monitoring, dietary regulation, and insulin. However, there has been no sound evidence base to support intensive treatment. The key issue for clinicians and consumers is whether treatment of GDM improves perinatal outcome.
Conservative interventions such as physiotherapy and ergonomic adjustments (such as keyboard adjustments or ergonomic advice) play a major role in the treatment of most work-related complaints of the arm, neck or shoulder (CANS).
In some nontransplant populations, effects of different antihypertensive drug classes vary. Relative effects in kidney transplant recipients are uncertain.
The three approaches to hysterectomy for benign disease are abdominal hysterectomy (AH), vaginal hysterectomy (VH), and laparoscopic hysterectomy (LH). Laparoscopic hysterectomy has three further subdivisions depending on the part of the procedure performed laparoscopically.
Post-stroke motor impairments cause difficulty controlling the joints of the affected limbs to produce useful movements. One way to manage this to use an orthosis to control the movement of the affected joints but evidence for their benefit is lacking.
Venous thromboembolic disease has been extensively studied in surgical patients. The benefit of thromboprophylaxis is now generally accepted, but it is medical patients who make up the greater proportion of the hospital population. Medical patients differ from surgical patients with regard to their health and the pathogenesis of thromboembolism and the impact that preventative measures can have. The extensive experience from thromboprophylaxis studies in surgical patients is therefore not necessarily applicable to non-surgical patients.
"Foot drop" or "Floppy foot drop" is the term commonly used to describe weakness or contracture of the muscles around the ankle joint. It may arise from many neuromuscular diseases.
Agitation affects up to 70% of older people with dementia. Valproic acid derivatives have been used for the past 10 years to control agitation in dementia, but no systematic review of the effectiveness of this treatment has been published to date. A systematic review of 2004 examined three randomised, placebo-controlled trials of the effect of valproate therapy on older people with dementia who were agitated. The review was updated (October 2008) to include two additional studies.
Sore throat is a common side effect of general anaesthesia and is reported by between 30% and 70% of patients after tracheal intubation. The likelihood of a sore throat varies with the type, diameter, and cuff pressure of the endotracheal tube used. If intubation is essential, it may be helpful to give drugs prophylactically to alleviate postoperative sore throat. Local anaesthetics and steroids have been used for this purpose.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) is a rare but serious neonatal pathogen. Prior to the availability of antiviral drugs the mortality associated with all but localised neonatal infection was high, with 85% of infants with disseminated HSV infection and 50% of infants with encephalitis dying by one year of age. The morbidity in the survivors of multiorgan infection was also high, with up to 50% experiencing long-term neurological sequelae.
Cardiovascular disease accounts for more than half the number of deaths among dialysis patients. The role of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) in the treatment of dyslipidaemia in dialysis patients is unclear and their safety has not been established.
Avascular necrosis of bone is a frequent and severe complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) and its treatment is not standardised.
When treating elevated blood pressure, doctors need to know what blood pressure (BP) target they should try to achieve. The standard of clinical practice for some time has been &lt;/= 140 - 160/ 90 - 100 mmHg. New guidelines are recommending BP targets lower than this standard. It is not known whether attempting to achieve targets lower than the standard reduces mortality and morbidity.
Depression is a common and important cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Depression is commonly treated with antidepressants and/or psychotherapy, but some people may prefer alternative approaches such as exercise. There are a number of theoretical reasons why exercise may improve depression.
Acne is a common skin disorder among women. Although no uniform approach to the management of acne exists, combination oral contraceptives (COCs), which contain an estrogen and a progestin, often are prescribed for women.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a devastating disease, which leads to right heart failure and premature death. Recent evidence suggests that endothelin receptor antagonists may be promising drugs in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Thrombolytic therapy is usually reserved for patients with clinically serious or massive pulmonary embolism (PE). Evidence suggests that thrombolytic agents may dissolve blood clots more rapidly than heparin and might reduce the death rate associated with PE. However, there are still concerns about the possible risk of adverse effects of thrombolytic therapy, such as major or minor haemorrhages. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2006.
Chronic osteomyelitis is generally treated with antibiotics and surgical debridement but can persist intermittently for years with frequent therapeutic failure. Despite advances in both antibiotics and surgical treatment, the long-term recurrence rate remains at approximately 20% to 30%.
The World Health Organization (WHO) 'safe communities' approach to injury prevention has been embraced around the world as a model for co-ordinating community efforts to enhance safety and reduce injury. Approximately 150 communities throughout the world have formal 'Safe Communities' designation. It is of public health interest to determine to what degree the model is successful, and whether it reduces injury rates. This Cochrane Review is an update of a previous published version.
Epithelial ovarian cancer is diagnosed in 4500 women in the UK each year of whom 1700 will ultimately die of their disease. Ten to fifteen percent of all cases are diagnosed early when there is still a good possibility for cure. The treatment of early stage disease involves surgery to remove disease often followed by chemotherapy. The largest clinical trials of this adjuvant therapy show an overall survival (OS) advantage with adjuvant platinum based chemotherapy but the precise role of this treatment in sub-groups of patients with differing prognoses needs to be defined.
The movement towards evidence-based practice makes explicit the need for access to current best evidence to improve health. Advances in electronic technologies have made health information more available, but does availability affect the rate of use of evidence in practice?
Tea is one of the most commonly consumed beverages worldwide. Teas from the plant Camellia sinensis can be grouped into green, black and oolong tea. Cross-culturally tea drinking habits vary. Camellia sinensis contains the active ingredient polyphenol, which has a subgroup known as catechins. Catechins are powerful antioxidants. It has been suggested that green tea polyphenol may inhibit cell proliferation and observational studies have suggested that green tea may have cancer-preventative effects.
Amblyopia is a reversible deficit of vision that has to be treated within the sensitive period for visual development. Screening programmes have been set up to detect this largely asymptomatic condition and refer children for treatment while an improvement in vision is still possible. The value of such programmes and the optimum protocol for administering them remain controversial.
Intimate partner abuse is common in all societies and damages the health of survivors and their children in the short and long term. Advocacy may decrease the impact of this abuse on women's health.
To determine the benefits and harms of therapies used to prevent or treat kidney disease in Henoch-Schnlein Purpura (HSP).
Health services often manage agitated or violent people, and for emergency psychiatric services such behaviour is particularly prevalent (10%). The drugs used in this situation should ensure that the person swiftly and safely regains composure.
Anxiety disorders are a potentially disabling group of disorders which are prevalent in childhood and adolescence. The recognition of the early onset of anxiety disorders, and their successful treatment with medication in adults, has led to the growing interest in using medication for paediatric anxiety disorders.
Although physical fitness has been suggested to improve physical and psychosocial health for a variety of population profiles, there is a lack of information about the safety and effectiveness of aerobic exercise for adults with Down syndrome.
Brief interventions involve a time-limited intervention focusing on changing behaviour. They are often motivational in nature using counselling skills to encourage a reduction in alcohol consumption.
Patients with early stage cervical cancer (stages IA2, IB1 or IIA) with risk factors such as lymph node metastasis, lympho vascular space invasion, depth invasion of more than 10mm, microscopic parametrial invasion, non-squamous histology and positive surgical margins have a high risk of recurrence when compared to patients with early stage cervical cancer with no risk factors for recurrence.
Uterine myomas (fibroids) are benign tumours of the uterus. Myomectomy, the surgical removal of myomas, is an important treatment option especially for women who wish to preserve their uteri. The major problem with myomectomy is excessive bleeding, which can be life-threatening and prolong postoperative stay. Knowledge of the effectiveness of the interventions to reduce bleeding during myomectomy is essential to enable evidence-based clinical decisions.
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to block tumour angiogenesis and target vascular endothelial cells. While some of them have already been approved by the health authorities and are successfully integrated into patient care, many others are still under development, and the clinical value of this approach has to be established.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is known to be associated with an increased risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The majority of lymphomas (&gt;80%) occurring during immunosuppression are aggressive B-cell in origin and have a high-to-intermediate histology grade. Treatment of NHL is not standardized.
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has become one of the greatest challenges to global public health. In 2007 UNAIDS estimated that 33.2 million people were living with HIV. Currently recommended regimens for initiating HIV treatment consist of either a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) or ritonvair-boosted protease inhibitor (PI) combined with two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs); however, there may be some patients for whom NNRTIs and PIs may not be appropriate.
Advantages to combining childhood vaccines include reducing the number of visits, injections and patient discomfort, increasing compliance, and optimizing prevention. The World Health Organization recommends that routine infant immunization programs include a vaccination against Haemophilus influenza type B (HIB) in the combined diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (DTP)-hepatitis B (HBV) vaccination. The effectiveness and safety of the combined vaccine should be carefully and systematically assessed to ensure their acceptability by the community.
De Quervain's tenosynovitis is a disorder characterised by pain on the radial (thumb) side of the wrist and functional disability of the hand. It can be treated by corticosteroid injection, splinting and surgery.
After the introduction of microsurgical principles in endodontics, involving new techniques for root canal treatment, there has been a continuous search for enhancing the visualisation of the surgical field. It would be interesting to know if the technical advantages for the operator brought in by magnification devices like surgical microscope, endoscope and magnifying loupes, are also associated with advantages for the patient, in terms of improvement of clinical and radiographic outcomes.
Care and support play a critical role in assisting people who are HIV-positive to understand the need for prevention and to enable them to protect others. As the HIV/AIDS pandemic progresses and HIV-seropositive individuals contend with devastating illness, it seemed timely to inquire if they receive support from family members. It also was important to develop a normative idea of how much family support exists and from whom it emanates.
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a very common cause of vaginitis that has been associated with a high incidence of obstetric and gynaecologic complications and increased risk of HIV-1 transmission. This has led to renewed research interest in its treatment.
Upper abdominal surgical procedures are associated with a high risk of postoperative pulmonary complications. The risk and severity of postoperative pulmonary complications can be reduced by the judicious use of therapeutic manoeuvres that increase lung volume. Our objective was to assess the effect of incentive spirometry (IS) compared to no therapy, or physiotherapy including coughing and deep breathing, on all-cause postoperative pulmonary complications and mortality in adult patients admitted for upper abdominal surgery.
Overground gait training forms a major part of physical therapy services for chronic stroke patients in almost every setting. Overground gait training refers to physical therapists' observation and cueing of the patient's walking pattern along with related exercises, but does not include high-technology aids such as functional electrical stimulation or body weight support.
Tumour hypoxia increases tumour invasiveness and has a negative impact on response to therapy. Hypoxic tumours are also associated with severely anaemic individuals. It has therefore been hypothesised that correcting anaemia, by increasing haemoglobin levels using erythropoietin, improves tumour oxygenation and consequently the patient's prognosis.
Garlic is alleged to have antimicrobial and antiviral properties that relieve the common cold, among other beneficial effects. There is widespread usage of garlic supplements. The common cold is associated with significant morbidity and economic consequences. On average, children have six to eight colds per year, and adults have two to four.
Surgery has been the treatment of choice for patients with rectal cancer. For locally advanced cancer results were poor, with high rates of locoregional recurrences and poor overall survival data. Adding (chemo)radiotherapy upfront improved results mainly in locoregional control. Adding hyperthermia to radiotherapy preoperatively might have an equivalent beneficial effect.
Although clozapine has been shown to be the treatment of choice in people with schizophrenia that are resistant to treatment, one third to two thirds of people still have persistent positive symptoms despite clozapine monotherapy of adequate dosage and duration. The need to provide effective therapeutic interventions to patients who do not have an optimal response to clozapine is the most common reason for simultaneously prescribing a second antipsychotic drug in combination with clozapine.
Rotator cuff disease is a common cause of shoulder pain. Topical glyceryl trinitrate is a possible new treatment.
Although non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been widely used for the treatment of pain and fever associated with the common cold, there is no systematic review to assess the effects of NSAIDs in patients with the common cold.
Millions of workers worldwide are exposed to noise levels that increase their risk of hearing impairment. Little is known about the effectiveness of hearing loss prevention interventions.
The HIV-1 pandemic has disproportionately affected individuals in resource-constrained settings where other infectious diseases, such as helminth infections, also are highly prevalent. There are biologically plausible reasons for possible effects of helminth infection in HIV-1-infected individuals, and findings from multiple studies suggest that helminth infection may adversely affect HIV-1 progression. Since initial publication of this review (Walson 2007), additional data from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) has become available. We sought to evaluate all currently available evidence to determine if treatment of helminth infection in HIV-1 co-infected individuals impacts HIV-1 progression.
Induction of general anaesthesia can be distressing for children. Non-pharmacological methods for reducing anxiety and improving co-operation may avoid the adverse effects of preoperative sedation.
Seizures are poorly controlled in many people with epilepsy, despite current antiepileptic treatments. Some turn to alternative or complementary therapy to treat their condition and the use of traditional Chinese medicinal herbs (TCMH) is increasingly popular. However, it remains unclear whether the existing evidence is rigorous enough to support its use.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease with an average onset between the fourth and fifth decade of life; it leads to death 15 to 20 years after the onset of symptoms. Although several drugs seem effective in controlling the incapacitating manifestations of HD, no specific therapy is known. The present review aims at analysing the best available data on therapeutic interventions investigated with the goal of modifying the progression of the disease as measured in terms of survival, disability or progression of HD core symptoms.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an orphan autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by the amplification of a nucleic acids triplet repeat. It is characterised by core symptoms of chorea, progressive dementia and psychiatric manifestations such as depression, irritability, apathy and psychosis. In current clinical practice, drugs exist that seem to improve symptoms for HD patients. However, their effectiveness has not been fully measured.
Allergen exposure is one of the environmental factors seemingly associated with the development of asthma. If asthma is a multi-factorial disease, it is hypothesised that prevention might only prove effective if most or all relevant environmental factors are simultaneously avoided.
People with diabetes mellitus (DM) sometimes present with acute or subacute, progressive, asymmetrical pain and weakness of the proximal lower limb muscles. The various names for the condition include diabetic amyotrophy, or diabetic lumbosacral radiculoplexus neuropathies. Some studies suggest that it may be due to immune-mediated inflammatory microvasculitis causing ischaemic damage of the nerves. Immunotherapies would therefore be expected to be beneficial.
Although pharmacological and psychological interventions are both effective for major depression, antidepressant drugs are frequently used as first-line treatment in primary and secondary care settings. Milnacipran, a dual serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), is one of the antidepressant drugs that clinicians use for routine depression care.
Drusen are amorphous yellowish deposits beneath the sensory retina. People with drusen, particularly large drusen, are at higher risk of developing age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The most common complication in AMD is choroidal neovascularisation (CNV), the growth of new blood vessels in the centre of the macula. The risk of CNV is higher among patients who are already affected by CNV in one eye.It has been observed clinically that laser photocoagulation of drusen leads to their disappearance and may prevent the occurrence of advanced disease (CNV or geographic atrophy) associated with visual loss.
Endometriosis is characterized by the presence of tissue that is morphologically and biologically similar to normal endometrium in locations outside the uterus. Surgical and hormonal treatment of endometriosis have unpleasant side effects and high rates of relapse. In China, treatment of endometriosis using Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) is routine and considerable research into the role of CHM in alleviating pain, promoting fertility, and preventing relapse has taken place.
Iron-deficiency anaemia is common during childhood. Iron supplementation has been claimed to increase the risk of malaria.
Implants may be placed penetrating the oral mucosa (1-stage procedure) or can be completely buried under the oral mucosa (2-stage procedure) during the healing phase of the bone at the implant surface. With a 2-stage procedure the risk of having unwanted loading onto the implants is minimized, but a second minor surgical intervention is needed to connect the healing abutments and more time is needed prior to start the prosthetic phase because of the wound-healing period required in relation to the second surgical intervention.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common global cancer. When HCC is detected early, interventions such as percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI), percutaneous acetic acid injection (PAI), and radiofrequency thermal ablation (RFTA) have curative potential and represent low invasive alternatives to surgery. The role of PEI or PAI has not been addressed in a systematic review.
Drinking is influenced by youth (mis)perceptions of how their peers drink. If misperceptions can be corrected, young people may drink less.
A Maternity Waiting Home (MWH) is a facility, within easy reach of a hospital or health centre which provides Emergency Obstetric Care (EmOC). Women may stay in the MWH at the end of their pregnancy and await labour. Once labour starts, women move to the health facility so that labour and giving birth may be assisted by a skilled birth attendant. The aim of the MWH is to improve accessibility and thus reduce morbidity and mortality for mother and neonate should complications arise. Some studies report a favourable effect on the outcomes for women and their newborn. Others show that utilisation is low and barriers exist. However these data are limited in reliability.
Surgical site infections (SSIs) are associated with significant morbidity, mortality, and resource utilization and are potentially preventable. Peri-operative hyperglycaemia has been associated with increased SSIs and previous recommendations have been to treat glucose levels above 200 mg/dL. However, recent studies have questioned the optimal glycaemic control regimen to prevent SSIs. Whether the benefits of strict or intensive glycaemic control with insulin infusion as compared to conventional management outweigh the risks remains controversial.
G-CSF increases the release of neutrophil endothelial progenitor cells from the bone marrow, and improves neutrophil functions, which are often impaired in people with diabetes.
Myofascial pain (MP) is a painful condition characterized by pain transmitted from trigger points (TP) within myofascial structures (in the muscles), local or distant from the pain. TPs can produce a characteristic pattern of irradiated pain or autonomic symptoms when stimulated. Cyclobenzaprine, a muscle relaxant that suppresses muscle spasm without interfering with muscle function, is used in clinical management of MP to improve quality of sleep and reduce pain.
Cleft palate is the most common congenital deformity of the face. It could affect speech acquisition, resulting in articulation errors that could persist into adulthood. Electropalatography (EPG) has been used in speech therapy with individuals who have articulation problems that are unresponsive to "standard treatment" procedures.
The prevention of long-term psychological distress following traumatic events is a major concern. Systematic reviews have suggested that individual Psychological Debriefing is not an effective intervention at preventing post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Recently other forms of intervention have been developed with the aim of preventing PTSD.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory and neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system (CNS), is characterized by recurrent relapses of CNS inflammation ranging from mild to severely disabling. Relapses have long been treated with steroids to reduce inflammation and hasten recovery. However, the commonly used intravenous methylprednisolone requires repeated infusions with the added costs of homecare or hospitalization, and may interfere with daily responsibilities. Oral steroids have been used in place of intravenous steroids, with lower direct and indirect costs.
Epidemiological evidence has suggested a link between beta(2)-agonists and increased asthma mortality. There has been much debate about possible causal links for this association, and whether regular (daily) long-acting beta(2)-agonists are safe.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive late onset disorder of the macula affecting central vision. Age-related macular degeneration is the leading cause of blindness in people over 65 years in industrialized countries (Congdon 2003). Recent epidemiologic, genetic and pathological evidence has shown AMD shares a number of risk factors with atherosclerosis, leading to the hypothesis that statins may exert protective effects in AMD.
Erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL) is a serious immunological complication of leprosy, causing inflammation of skin, nerves, other organs, and general malaise. Many different therapies exist for ENL, but it is unclear if they work or which therapy is optimal.
Caesarean section delivery is becoming more frequent. Childbirth is an emotion-filled event and the mother needs to bond with her newborn baby as early as possible. Any intervention that leads to improvement in pain relief is worthy of investigation. Local anaesthetics, either on their own or in combination with opioids or nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, have been employed as an adjunct to other postoperative pain relief strategies. Conflicting reports were noted.
Neuralgic amyotrophy (also know as Parsonage-Turner syndrome or brachial plexus neuritis) is a distinct peripheral nervous system disorder characterised by episodes (attacks) of extreme neuropathic pain and rapid multifocal weakness and atrophy in the upper limbs. Neuralgic amyotrophy has both an idiopathic and hereditary form, with similar clinical symptoms but generally an earlier age of onset and more episodes in the hereditary form. The current hypothesis is that the episodes are caused by an immune-mediated response to the brachial plexus. Recovery is slow, in months to years, and many patients are left with residual pain and decreased exercise tolerance of the affected limb(s). Anecdotal evidence suggests that corticosteroids may relieve pain or help improve functional recovery.
Treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) is increasingly used to reduce proteinuria and retard the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD). But some patients do not attain complete resolution of proteinuria and might have higher aldosterone levels within few months of treatment. The addition of aldosterone antagonists may be beneficial to these patients for reduction of progression of renal damage.
Fatigue after stroke is common and distressing to patients. The best way to treat this fatigue is uncertain. Theoretically, several different interventions may be of benefit.
Acute ischaemic stroke is a common cause of death and disability. A number of studies published in China have shown that acanthopanax is beneficial for acute ischaemic stroke.
Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a necrotizing small-vessel vasculitis that can affect any organ in the body but mainly affects the upper and lower respiratory tract, the kidneys, joints, skin and eyes. The current mainstay of remission induction therapy is systemic corticosteroids in combination with oral daily cyclophosphamide (CYC) which induces remission in 75% to 100% of cases. Although standard therapy is effective in inducing partial or complete remission, 50% of complete remissions are followed by at least one relapse.
Antiepileptic drugs have been used in pain management since the 1960s. Pregabalin is a recently developed antiepileptic drug also used in management of chronic neuropathic pain conditions.
Epileptic seizures occur in only a minority of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), but can have serious consequences. The available literature suggests an association of seizures in MS with cortical and subcortical demyelinating lesions, which suggest that seizures in MS are probably most often symptomatic rather that idiopathic. It is currently unknown whether patients with MS should be treated differently from other patients with epileptic seizures.
Measurement of cervical length (CL) by transvaginal ultrasound (TVU) is predictive of preterm birth (PTB). It is unclear if this screening test is effective for prevention of PTB.
Despite the efficacy of combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) and the improvement in prognosis of those living with HIV/AIDS, a large proportion of individuals on ART does not achieve or maintain adequate virological suppression. Several tools have been proposed to enhance ART outcomes, including therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of antiretrovirals (ARVs). The aim of ARV TDM is to identify elevated (potentially toxic) or low (potentially sub-therapeutic) ARV concentrations. ARV TDM may thus optimise efficacy and minimise toxicity of ART.
Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) reduce anemia in cancer patients and may improve quality of life, but there are concerns that ESAs might increase mortality.
Leptospira infection is a global zoonosis with significant health impact for agricultural workers and those persons whose work or recreation takes them into endemic areas.
Topical corticosteroids are the most frequently prescribed dermatological treatment and are frequently used by pregnant women with skin conditions. However, little is known about their safety in pregnancy.
Etodolac is a selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, with evidence of efficacy in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Its analgesic efficacy in postoperative pain has not been clearly established. There are no systematic reviews on Etodolac's use in this condition.
Flurbiprofen is a non-selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), related to ibuprofen and naproxen, used to treat acute and chronic painful conditions. There is no systematic review of its use in acute postoperative pain.
Excessive alcohol use during pregnancy has been associated with adverse maternal and neonatal effects. It is therefore important to develop and evaluate effective interventions during this important time in a woman's life. To our knowledge there have been no systematic reviews of randomised control trials (RCT) in this population.
Fear of pain during intrauterine device (IUD) insertion is a barrier to use of this contraceptive method. Interventions for pain during IUD insertion include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), local cervical anesthetics, and cervical ripening agents such as misoprostol.
Rubefacients (containing salicylates or nicotinamides) cause irritation of the skin, and are believed to relieve various musculoskeletal pains. They are available on prescription, and are common components in over-the-counter remedies. A non-Cochrane review in 2004 found limited evidence for efficacy.
Nefopam is a centrally-acting but non-opioid analgesic drug of the benzoxazocine chemical class, developed in the early 1970s. It is widely used, mainly in European countries, for the relief of moderate to severe pain as an alternative to opioid analgesic drugs, and used in rheumatic disease and other musculoskeletal disorders in the UK. This review sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral nefopam in acute postoperative pain, using clinical studies of patients with established pain, and with outcomes measured primarily over 6 hours using standard methods. This type of study has been used for many decades to establish that drugs have analgesic properties.
Maternal colonization with group B streptococcus (GBS) during pregnancy increases the risk of neonatal infection by vertical transmission. Administration of intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP) during labor has been associated with a reduction in early onset GBS disease (EOGBSD). However, treating all colonized women during labor exposes a large number of women and infants to possible adverse effects without benefit.
The World Health Organization recommends uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria is treated using Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy (ACT). This review aims to assist the decision making of malaria control programmes by providing an overview of the relative benefits and harms of the available options.
Dexibuprofen (S(+)-ibuprofen) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) licensed for use in rheumatic disease and other musculoskeletal disorders in the UK, and widely available in other countries worldwide. It is an active isomer of ibuprofen. This review sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral dexibuprofen in acute postoperative pain, using clinical studies of patients with established pain, and with outcomes measured primarily over 6 hours using standard methods. This type of study has been used for many decades to establish that drugs have analgesic properties.
Methotrexate, a folate antagonist, is an immunosuppressant drug that is effective for treating several inflammatory disorders including Crohn's disease. Ulcerative colitis, a related chronic inflammatory bowel disease, can be challenging to treat. This review was performed to examine the efficacy of methotrexate for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis.
Aceclofenac is the prodrug of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) diclofenac, widely used to treat acute and chronic pain. There are no known systematic reviews of its analgesic efficacy in acute postoperative pain. This review sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral aceclofenac in acute postoperative pain, using clinical studies of patients with established pain, and with outcomes measured primarily over 6 hours using standard methods. This type of study has been used for many decades to establish that drugs have analgesic properties.
Acemetacin is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) licensed for use in rheumatic disease and other musculoskeletal disorders in the UK, and widely available in other countries worldwide. This review sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral acemetacin in acute postoperative pain, using clinical studies of patients with established pain, and with outcomes measured primarily over 6 hours using standard methods. This type of study has been used for many decades to establish that drugs have analgesic properties.
Tenoxicam is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) licensed for use in rheumatic disease and other musculoskeletal disorders in the UK, and is widely available in other countries worldwide. This review sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral tenoxicam in acute postoperative pain, using clinical studies of patients with established pain, and with outcomes measured primarily over 6 hours using standard methods. This type of study has been used for many decades to establish that drugs have analgesic properties.
Among very low birth weight (VLBW) infants, early neonatal hyperglycemia is common and is associated with increased risks for death and major morbidities. It is uncertain whether hyperglycemia per se is a cause of adverse clinical outcomes or whether outcomes can be improved by preventing hyperglycemia.
All major guidelines for antihypertensive therapy recommend weight loss; anti-obesity drugs might be a helpful option.
Endometriosis is a chronic, recurring condition that occurs during the reproductive years. It is characterized by endometrial tissue developing outside the uterine cavity. This endometrial tissue development is dependent on estrogen produced primarily by the ovaries and, therefore, traditional management has focused on ovarian suppression. In this review we considered the role of modulation of the immune system as an alternative approach.
Uterine fibroids (myomas, fibromyomas, leiomyomas) are the most common benign tumours of the female genital tract. Danazol, a synthetic isoxazole derivative chemically related to 17-ethinyl testosterone, has been used for many years for the treatment of women with uterine fibroids.
Dental caries is a multifactorial disease in which the fermentation of food sugars by bacteria from the biofilm (dental plaque) leads to localised demineralisation of tooth surfaces, which may ultimately result in cavity formation. Resin composites are widely used in dentistry to restore teeth. These restorations can fail for a number of reasons, such as secondary caries, excessive wear, marginal degradation, tooth sensitivity, pulpal death, and restorative material fracture. Caries adjacent to restorations is one of the main causes for restoration replacement. The presence of antibacterials in both the filling material and the bonding systems would theoretically be able to affect the initiation and progression of caries adjacent to restorations.
Although locoregional treatments such as hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) claim the advantage of delivering higher doses of anticancer agents directly into the metastatic organ as compared to systemic chemotherapy (SCT), the benefit in terms of overall survival (OS) is unclear. We quantitatively summarized the results of randomised controlled trials (RCT) comparing HAI to SCT for the treatment of unresectable liver metastatic disease from colorectal cancer (CRC).
Current international treatment guidelines recommending therapeutic exercise for people with symptomatic hip OA report are based on expert opinion only.
Blood for transfusion may become contaminated at any point between collection and transfusion and may result in bacteraemia (the presence of bacteria in the blood), severe illness or even death for the blood recipient. Donor arm skin is one potential source of blood contamination, so it is usual to cleanse the skin with an antiseptic before blood donation. One-step and two-step alcohol based antiseptic regimens are both commonly advocated but there is uncertainty as to which is most effective.
Long-acting ss(2)- agonists (LABA) in combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are increasingly prescribed in asthmatic children.
Concern has been expressed about the relevance of secondary care studies to primary care patients specifically about the effectiveness of antidepressant medication. There is a need to review the evidence of only those studies that have been conducted comparing antidepressant efficacy with placebo in primary care-based samples.
Postal and electronic questionnaires are widely used for data collection in epidemiological studies but non-response reduces the effective sample size and can introduce bias. Finding ways to increase response to postal and electronic questionnaires would improve the quality of health research.
There are several known factors that cause ischemic heart disease. However, the part played by air pollution still remains something of a mystery. Recent attention has focused on the chronic effect of particulate matter on heart disease. Satellite-derived aerosol optical depth (AOD) was found to be correlated with PM2.5 in the eastern US. The objective of this study was to examine if there is an association between aerosol air pollution as indicated by AOD and chronic ischemic heart disease (CIHD) in the eastern US.
Ataxia has been suggested in the literature to be a symptom of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), but so far has not been objectively quantified. In this study, we wanted to objectively quantify ataxia in patients with liver cirrhosis.
Upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage (UGIH) is a common emergency, however, dedicated bleed units only exist in selected hospitals in the UK.
Gastrointestinal endoscopy causes discomfort and pain in patients. Sedation reduces anxiety and pain. Its use, however, continues to be a controversial issue and it varies greatly from one country to another. The use of sedation in Spanish gastrointestinal endoscopy (GIE) units is unknown.
Although hepatitis C and hepatitis B virus (HCV/HBV) infections are an important health problem worldwide, their burden of disease (BoD) taking into account their chronic consequences, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is still unknown. Our aim was to assess the total number of deaths attributable to these viruses in Spain and the years of life lost, first component of the disability adjusted life years, a comparative index of BoD.
Patients with chronic hepatitis C (HCV) infection can also have hyperlipidemia. Glucose intolerance has been associated with HCV infection and treating hyperlipidemia in this and other high-risk groups is warranted. We hypothesized that hyperlipidemia is common in patients with hepatitis C and that it is under-treated for fear of worsening liver function.
Tropical calcific pancreatitis (TCP) is a relatively common form of chronic pancreatitis in parts of Asia and Africa. The SPINK1 variant p.N34S is strongly associated with TCP, but other genetic factors remain to be defined. Chymotrypsinogen C (CTRC) degrades trypsinogen and loss-of-function variants have been found in European patients with chronic pancreatitis. Preliminary data indicate that CTRC might increase the risk for TCP.
Intraparenchymal endometriosis of liver is rare. It may present as liver tumour and the diagnosis is not usually established till after surgery.
Khat is widely consumed among the youth of Jazan region of Saudi Arabia. However, its prevalence is not well documented.
Previous studies have found self-rated health to be associated with social capital. However, there is lack of studies examining social capital among aging people and its impact on self-rated health in the urban-rural context.
The transtheoretical model is a framework to explain smoking uptake and cessation in adolescence. Decisional balance is proposed as a driver of stage movement.
Type D personality is a risk indicator in cardiac patients. The validity and reliability of the Type D Scale (DS14) have been confirmed in Western Europe but not outside this context.
The concept of perceived control is central to many theories of physical and emotional well-being. However, existing measures are lengthy and generally focus on job control. In epidemiological research, brief measures and those which can be applied across entire populations are needed. Among women in particular, a substantial minority have no paid work, while most also have major unpaid family commitments which may affect well-being through their effect on control. Thus, we evaluated the six-item Life Control Scale (Bobak, Soc Sci Med. 47:269-79, 1998) with a population-based sample of middle-aged women.
Daily spiritual experience (DSE) refers to one's interaction with the transcendent in day-to-day life. Underwood's Daily Spiritual Experience Scale mic(DSES) was developed to measure this experiential component of religiousness and spirituality. Addressing ordinary daily experiences rather than particular beliefs, DSES has transcultural applicability potential.
The illness attitudes scales (IAS) were developed to identify different dimensions of hypochondrical attitudes, fears, beliefs, and abnormal illness behavior (Kellner 1986). Although there are several studies which focus on the scale structure of the IAS, the factor structure has not yet been made quite clear.
Among the few instruments used to measure the behavioral component of body image disturbances, the Body Image Avoidance Questionnaire (BIAQ) is the most widely used. Despite the wide utilization of this instrument, it is currently unknown whether it is appropriate for male and female adolescents from middle and junior high schools.
Type D personality is an emerging risk factor in cardiovascular disease. We examined the psychometric properties of the Danish version of the Type D Scale (DS14) and the impact of Type D on anxiety and depression in cardiac patients.
Prior work has related elevated life stress to greater risk of cervical neoplasia in women with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and human papillomavirus (HPV).
At the beginning of the 1990s, the World Health Organization (WHO) developed a project in order to create a cross-cultural instrument of quality of life assessment: the World Health Organization Quality of Life (WHOQOL).
Increasing trends of non-communicable diseases is a worldwide phenomenon including in the developing countries. Few studies focus on adolescent's positive health and their predictors.
Little is known about cross-language measurement equivalence of the job content questionnaire (JCQ) PURPOSE: The purposes of this study were to assess the extent of cross-language differential item functioning (DIF) of the 27 JCQ items in six languages (French, Dutch, Belgian-French, Belgian-Dutch (Flemish), Italian, and Swedish) from six European research centers and to test whether its effects on the scale-level mean comparisons among the centers were substantial or not.
The physiologic changes that occur during pregnancy can lead to a variety of conditions that can usually be self-treated. There are no licensed medicines for conditions such as morning sickness or insomnia in pregnancy, and evidence from Western countries suggests that patients often resort to using herbal medicines. Research on the health behaviors of pregnant women in the United Kingdom with respect to herbal remedies has not been undertaken.
Complementary and alternative medicines are increasingly used for the treatment of asthma in Western countries. A novel three-herb antiasthma herbal medicine intervention (ASHMI; Sino-Lion Pharmaceutical Company; Shan Dong China) was demonstrated to be effective and safe in a murine model of asthma and in a preliminary clinical study in China.
The effects of the use of technological devices on dimensions that affect the physician-patient relationship need to be well understood.
Primary care physicians often fail to diagnose low bone density. This pilot study assessed 2 interventions for their effect on bone mineral density testing.
Because unhealthy behaviors have been shown to predict premature mortality and quality of life is linked to chronic disease, it is plausible that there is a relationship between unhealthy behaviors and a patient's overall well-being.
Maternal medical care (prenatal and postpartum) involves a set of clinical interventions addressing risk factors associated with important maternal and infant outcomes. Programs to increase the rate of delivery of these interventions in clinical practice have not been widely implemented.
Educating physicians and other health care professionals about the identification and treatment of patients who drink more than recommended limits is an ongoing challenge.
Interest in community-based participatory research (CBPR) has surged during the last several years because of its potential to enhance the quality and usefulness of research outcomes. Practice-based research networks (PBRNs) potentially can provide a bridge between the research endeavor and communities; PBRNs have been identified as a promising venue for CBPR. However, this marriage of CBPR and PBRNs faces many challenges, such as locus of project idea generation, time constraints, and funding limitations.
Supported by a supplement to our Clinical and Translational Science Award, we studied the feasibility of implementing clinical research in Northern Manhattan community practices that primarily serve Hispanic patients.
Continuing growth of the research spectrum of practice-based research networks (PBRNs) creates a need (1) for new approaches to training clinicians in research protocols and (2) to standardize clinician data collection. Each existing training method has shortcomings when used in geographically dispersed PBRNs. We describe here the use and costs of Internet-based training in support of a research protocol across a PBRN consortium.
Practice-based research network (PBRN) study investigators must interface with multiple Institutional Review Boards (IRBs), many of which are unfamiliar with PBRN research.
Evaluating new technology in clinical practice is an important component of translating research into practice. We considered the feasibility of using a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-waived point of care (POC) glycohemoglobin (HbA1c) methodology in busy family medicine centers by comparing the results of POC HbA1c and laboratory analysis results.
This study compared the pharmacodynamics of ceftobiprole and vancomycin against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA) using an in vitro model.
Although previous studies have suggested that linezolid may be effective for treating multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) tuberculosis (TB), the optimal dose of linezolid for intractable MDR/XDR-TB is not clear.
The randomized placebo-controlled double-blind CLARICOR trial investigated the influence of clarithromycin versus placebo on cardiovascular events and mortality in patients with chronic coronary artery disease (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT 00121550). The trial randomized 2172 patients to 500 mg of clarithromycin daily versus 2200 patients to matching placebo for 14 days. This paper presents protocol-specified analysis of the patient-reported information regarding their compliance and non-serious adverse events during the 14 days of treatment as well as serious adverse events (mortality and hospitalizations) during the first 30 days after randomization.
NXL104 is a novel-structure beta-lactamase inhibitor with potent activity against both class A and class C enzymes. Among the class A carbapenemases, KPC-type enzymes are now spreading rapidly and KPC-related carbapenemase resistance is an emerging phenomenon of great clinical importance. The activity of NXL104 against KPC beta-lactamases was examined.
Razupenem (previously known as PTZ601, PZ-601, SMP-601 or SM-216601) is a novel carbapenem, active against Enterobacteriaceae as well as Gram-positive bacteria including methicillin-resistant staphylococci and enterococci.
APV102002 was an open-label study comparing a dual-boosted HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI) [fosamprenavir/lopinavir/ritonavir (FPV/LPV/RTV; 1400 mg/533 mg/133 mg twice daily)] and a high dose of FPV/RTV 1400 mg/100 mg twice daily (HD-FPV/RTV) versus the standard FPV/RTV 700 mg/100 mg twice-daily (STD-FPV/RTV) regimen for 24 weeks.
Headache is a common complication of lumbar puncture (LP). Although in most cases post-LP headaches are not severe and have a benign course, they can also be a manifestation of a potentially life-threatening complication such as subdural hematoma (SDH).
Systemic lymphoma can be difficult to recognize due to its diverse manifestations. Paraneoplastic leukoencephalopathy has rarely been reported in the context of lymphoma.
The medial vestibulospinal tract (MVST), which descends in the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF), may mediate the vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs) in the contracting sternocleidomastoid muscle. We report herein abnormal VEMPs in a patient with medial medullary infarction (MMI) that appeared to involve the MLF.
The p63 is regarded as a potential stem cell marker.
Dermatomyositis (DM) is a prototypic autoimmune syndrome, whereby immune-based microvascular injury is critical in the pathogenesis of skin lesions and the myopathy. Although not widely recognized or accepted as a pathogenetic trigger, endotheliotropic viral triggers including parvovirus B19 and cytomegalovirus have been linked to DM. At times, the clinical manifestations in DM can be fulminant with acute renal failure because of rhabdomyolysis, respiratory failure and gastrointestinal infarcts.
The pathogenesis of granuloma annulare (GA) is unclear. Collagen fiber degeneration is commonly reported, and there are several conflicting studies on elastic fiber and vascular changes associated with GA. In this study, we aimed to evaluate histopathologic characteristics, collagen and elastic tissue changes and vascular changes in GA.
Twenty to 30% of malignant melanomas are associated with melanocytic nevi; however, sometimes it is difficult to distinguish the melanoma from the nevus by routine histology. We have previously described distinctive patterns of elastic fibers in nevi and in melanomas.
The histologic diagnosis of atypical fibroxanthoma (AFX) can sometimes be challenging. No specific marker exists to confirm the diagnosis other than excluding other entities. CD163 has been shown to have great specificity for tumors of monocyte/histiocyte lineage. In this study, we evaluated the diagnostic utility of CD163 in diagnosing AFX and in identifying skin lesions with histiocytic/dendritic derivation.
Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma (IVLBCL) is an extremely rare type of malignant lymphoma characterized by exclusive or predominant growth of neoplastic cells within the lumen of blood vessels. Cases in the literature predominantly involve the skin and central nervous system, with special emphasis on the 'cutaneous variant'.
Genetic factors that predispose individuals to Behet's disease (BD) are considered to play important roles in the development of the disease. The aim of this study was to determine, by counting sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and micronucleus (MN) frequencies, whether DNA damage have an effect on the pathogenesis of BD. Furthermore, our aim was to show if there is an association between oxidative stress and chromosome instability in BD.
Bsp1, bone sialoprotein 1; GoPro49, Golgi protein 49 kDa; E16, embryonic day 16; HERS, Hertwig's epithelial root sheath; PDL, periodontal ligament; dpn, day post-natal.
Pilonidal sinus (PNS) is chronic inflammatory process of the skin in the natal cleft. Management of PNS is mainly surgical. Although different types of surgery have been performed, the recurrence rate is still high.
Acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) continues to be a major limitation to successful haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. If experimental studies and clinical observations could partially elucidate the pathophysiology of acute GVHD, the biology of chronic GVHD is still much less well understood.
To determine the prevalence of joint and nail symptoms, impact of these symptoms on health-related quality of life (HR-QoL), and the effects of etanercept on them in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis.
Facial epidermoid cyst is a common benign epithelial tumour frequently seen in young or middle-aged people and may cause aesthetic disability. Surgical excision is the most frequently used method but may result in obvious scar.
Psoriasis vulgaris of the scalp has a significant psychosocial impact on individuals affecting their quality of life (QoL). A combination of calcipotriol and betamethasone dipropionate in a formulation suitable for treatment of scalp psoriasis has been developed.
Nail psoriasis is often refractory to traditional treatments, and patients with nail psoriasis usually demand a therapeutic option. Both photodynamic therapy (PDT) and pulse dye laser (PDL) have proved effective for plaque-type psoriasis, but they have not been evaluated in nail psoriasis. On the other hand, delta-aminolaevulinic acic has been shown to penetrate into the nail matrix and nail bed occluded with bioadhesive patches.
Dermatologists are often the first-line specialists who recognize and diagnose human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection because of pathognomic skin signs. It is therefore important to investigate attitudes and knowledge regarding HIV/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) amongst dermatological patients in order to provide information for dermatologists and to draw their attention to the issues.
A few studies on the treatment of vitiligo with topical tacrolimus have been published and showed promising results. However, most of these trials were uncontrolled.
The role of B cells in resistance to Cryptococcus neoformans disease (i.e., cryptococcosis) is unknown. Given evidence that IgM(+) memory B cells are required for immunity to other encapsulated pathogens, we hypothesized that these cells might contribute to resistance to cryptococcosis.
Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are beneficial probiotic organisms that contribute to improved nutrition, microbial balance, and immuno-enhancement of the intestinal tract, as well as lower cholesterol. Although present in many foods, most trials have been in spreads or dairy products. Here we tested whether Bifidobacteria isolates could lower cholesterol, inhibit harmful enzyme activities, and control fecal water content.
Linoleic 18:2 (n-6) and alpha-linolenic 18:3 (n-3) essential fatty acids and long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA) are essential nutrients for growth and neonatal development. Consumption of preformed n-3 LC-PUFA has been shown to increase gestational duration and to decrease the incidence of premature birth in human studies. This study evaluated the association of essential fatty acids and LC-PUFA in breast milk on the growth of premature children (weight, height and head circumference).
In endemic areas, falciparum malaria remains the leading cause of seizures in children presenting to emergency departments. In addition, seizures in malaria have been shown to increase morbidity and mortality in these patients. The management of seizures in malaria is sometimes complicated by the refractory nature of these seizures to readily available anti-convulsants. The objective of this study was to determine predictors of anti-convulsant treatment failure and seizure recurrence after initial control among children with malaria.
The (anti neutrophil cytoplasmatic autoantibody ANCA), associated small vessel vasculitides (ASVV) are relapsing-remitting inflammatory disorders, involving various organs, such as the kidneys. (Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 MCP-1) has been shown to be locally up regulated in glomerulonephritis and recent studies have pointed out MCP-1 as a promising marker of renal inflammation. Here we measure urinary cytokine levels in different phases of disease, exploring the possible prognostic value of MCP-1, together with (interleukin 6 IL-6), (interleukin 8 IL-8) and (immunoglobulin M IgM).
The inhibition of poly(adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is a potential synthetic lethal therapeutic strategy for the treatment of cancers with specific DNA-repair defects, including those arising in carriers of a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. We conducted a clinical evaluation in humans of olaparib (AZD2281), a novel, potent, orally active PARP inhibitor.
Inhalational anthrax caused by Bacillus anthracis is associated with high mortality primarily due to toxin-mediated injury. Raxibacumab is a human IgG1lambda monoclonal antibody directed against protective antigen, a component of the anthrax toxin.
From 2001 through March 2006, Planned Parenthood health centers throughout the United States provided medical abortion (abortion by means of medication) principally by a regimen of oral mifepristone followed 24 to 48 hours later by vaginal misoprostol. In response to concern about serious infections, in early 2006 Planned Parenthood changed the route of misoprostol administration from vaginal to buccal and required either routine provision of antibiotics or universal screening and treatment for chlamydia; in July 2007, Planned Parenthood began requiring routine treatment with antibiotics for all medical abortions.
A previous report described the presence of autoantibodies against folate receptors in 75% of serum samples from women with a history of pregnancy complicated by a neural-tube defect, as compared with 10% of controls. We sought to confirm this finding in an Irish population, which traditionally has had a high prevalence of neural-tube defects.
There is no universally accepted staging system for primary brain tumors wherein prognostication is mainly based on complex composite indices.
The changing trends in the management of vestibular schwannoma (VS) in our practice over the last two decades as well as the current status are presented here.
Gliomas represent a diverse range of clinical presentation, histological differentiation, and response to therapy. Altered cell proliferation and cell death signals in gliomas are of great interest to elucidate the key molecules involved and to find effective treatment modalities. By considering the role of different proteases in correlation with differential poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) fragmentation we have studied the pattern of cell death in human glioma tissues.
Cavernomas are rare in the brainstem and account for 18-35% of central nervous cavernomas and can cause recurrent hemorrhages, devastating neurological deficits and mortality.
Brainstem gliomas are highly heterogeneous tumors both in their clinical manifestation and in their pathology. Despite significant advances in the surgery for brainstem gliomas many aspects of this pathology are still unclear.
Guillain-Barriota syndrome (GBS) is an acute neurological illness affecting the peripheral nervous system causing significant morbidity. The syndrome has been classified electrophysiologically into demyelinating and axonal forms. The clinical features of the axonal variant (acute motor axonal neuropathy--AMAN) are not well characterized, particularly in the Indian context.
Elevated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) total protein (TP) concentration (mainly due to a dysfunctional blood-CSF barrier (B-CSFB)) with normal cell count is a hallmark for the diagnosis of Guillain-Barriota syndrome (GBS).
Baclofen, a GABA-agonist, is currently available as an immediate release (IR) formulation for relieving neurogenic spasticity in a variety of disorders. Baclofen IR requires to be administered three times a day which inadvertently increases the chances of medication noncompliance among patients and is also associated with side effects such as drowsiness and muscle weakness.
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is the most common entrapment neuropathy caused by median nerve compression at the wrist. It results in loss of considerable man days and the effectiveness the various treatment modalities are still debated.
Pain management is an important component in the postoperative period following discectomy.
In the postoperative period of posterior spinal surgery, surgeons usually encounter a wide spectrum of complications, including retained surgical sponge, gossypiboma.
The growth in cross-cultural studies and international research highlights the use of translators and the associated challenges for researchers with regard to cultural and linguistic issues when collecting data in one language and analysing and reporting in another. The specific challenges when using translators are frequently overlooked in the research literature and translators and the interpretation processes omitted from the research methodology and/or discussion.
An independent evaluation of changes to the delivery of Palliative Day Services was carried out during 2006-2007 using interviews with service users. The analysis found that the words and metaphors employed by users of services emphasized their emotional response to the changes, and helped to explain their depth of feeling about their experiences, warranting further investigation.
DNA damage checkpoints insure that the integrity of genomic DNA is faithfully maintained throughout the eukaryotic cell cycle. In the presence of damaged DNA, checkpoints are triggered to delay cell cycle progression to allow for DNA repair. In fission yeast, the kinases Chk1 and Cds1 are major components of these DNA damage checkpoint pathways. Both Chk1 and Cds1 are important for viability in the presence of several DNA damaging agents. In this study we hypothesized that Chk1 and Cds1 play a vital role in fission yeast cells ability to survive exposure to the DNA damaging agent cisplatin. Cisplatin is a potent chemotherapeutic drug that interacts with DNA and causes both inter- and intra-strand DNA cross-links.
Preeclampsia and coronary-artery disease share risk factors, suggesting common pathophysiological mechanisms. CX3CR1/CX3CL1 mediates leukocyte migration and adhesion and has been implicated in the pathophysiology of several inflammatory diseases. M280/I249 variants of CX3CR1 are associated with an atheroprotective effect and reduced endothelial dysfunction. The aim of this study was to search for an association between V249I and T280M polymorphisms of CX3CR1, preeclampsia and endothelial dysfunction.
Rubber hand illusion (RHI) is a subject's illusion of the self-ownership of a rubber hand that was touched synchronously with their own hand. Although previous studies have confirmed that this illusion disappears when the rubber hand was touched asynchronously with the subject's hand, the minimum temporal discrepancy of these two events for attenuation of RHI has not been examined.
Making the correct choice between transcription elongation and transcription termination is essential to the function of RNA polymerase II, and fundamental to gene expression. This choice can be influenced by factors modifying the transcription complex, factors modifying chromatin, or signals mediated by the template or transcript. To aid in the study of transcription elongation and termination we have developed a transcription elongation reporter system that consists of tandem luciferase reporters flanking a test sequence of interest. The ratio of expression from the reporters provides a measure of the relative rates of successful elongation through the intervening sequence.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is one of most common and still poorly treated primary brain tumors. In search for new therapeutic approaches, Bone Morphogenetic Proteins (BMPs) induce astroglial commitment in GBM-derived cells in vitro. However, we recently suggested that hypoxia, which is characteristic of the brain niche where GBM reside, strongly counter-acts BMP effects. It seems apparent that a more complete understanding of the biology of GBM cells is needed, in particular considering the role played by hypoxia as a signaling pathways regulator. HIF-1alpha is controlled at the transcriptional and translational level by mTOR and, alike BMP, also mTOR pathway modulates glial differentiation in central nervous system (CNS) stem cells.
Coilin is the signature protein of the Cajal body, a conserved nuclear organelle involved in multiple aspects of small ribonucleoprotein (RNP) biogenesis. Coilin is required for Cajal body homeostasis in both plants and animals. Mice lacking coilin are viable when the mutation is crossed to an outbred strain but only partially viable when crossed to inbred lines.
Sciatic nerve injuries often cause partial or total loss of motor, sensory and autonomic functions due to the axon discontinuity, degeneration, and eventual death which finally result in substantial functional loss and decreased quality of life. Nerve growth factor (NGF) plays a critical role in peripheral nerve regeneration. However, the lack of efficient NGF delivery approach limits its clinical applications. We reported here by fusing with the N-terminal domain of agrin (NtA), NGF-beta could target to nerve cells and improve nerve regeneration.
The Ribosomal protein S19 gene locus (RPS19) has been linked to two kinds of red cell aplasia, Diamond-Blackfan Anemia (DBA) and Transient Erythroblastopenia in Childhood (TEC). Mutations in RPS19 coding sequences have been found in 25% of DBA patients, but not in TEC patients. It has been suggested that non-coding RPS19 sequence variants contribute to the considerable clinical variability in red cell aplasia. We therefore aimed at identifying non-coding variations associated with DBA or TEC phenotypes.
Chronic myocarditis is often initiated by viral infection, the most common of which is coxsackievirus infection. The precise mechanism by which viral infection leads to chronic autoimmune pathology is poorly understood, however it is clear that the early immune response plays a critical role. Previous results have shown that the inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-6 is integral to the development of experimental-induced autoimmune myocarditis. However, the function of IL-6 during viral-mediated autoimmunity has yet to be elucidated.
Clinical treatments with typical antipsychotic drugs (APDs) are accompanied by extrapyramidal motor side-effects (EPS) such as hypokinesia and catalepsy. As little is known about electrophysiological substrates of such motor disturbances, we investigated the effects of a typical APD, alpha-flupentixol, on the motor behavior and the neuronal activity of the whole basal ganglia nuclei in the rat.
Schizosaccharomyces pombe pik1 encodes a phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, reported to bind Cdc4, but not Cdc4(G107S).
The clinical and histologic appearance of fibrosis in cutaneous lesions in chronic graft-versus -host disease (c-GVHD) resembles the appearance of fibrosis in scleroderma (SSc). Recent studies identified distinctive structural changes in the superficial dermal microvasculature and matrix of SSc skin. We compared the dermal microvasculature in human c-GVHD to SSc to determine if c-GVHD is a suitable model for SSc.
Preference-based health-state values, also referred to as utility scores, are considered an important measure of outcome in the evaluation of healthcare. A common approach to elicit utility scores is the use of the time trade-off (TTO) method; however, the data on TTO utility scores in patients with mental disorders are scarce.
Delayed coverage of pathogens including meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in pneumonia and bacteraemia has been associated with increased mortality and length of hospital stay (LOS). However, less is known about the impact of delayed appropriate coverage in complicated skin and skin-structure infections (cSSSIs).
Chloroprocaine is a fast-acting local anesthetic, whereas bupivacaine is a long-acting one. They have been coadministered with limited success. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of additives on the efficacy of regional blockade using chloroprocaine followed by bupivacaine.
Recent clinical reports suggest that intraneural needle placement may not always lead to neurologic injury. To explain the absence of neurologic complications in these reports, we studied the risk and extent of nerve injury after intentional needle-nerve placement in a cryopreserved human sciatic nerve.
Although the subspecialty of regional anesthesiology has become an important focus during residency training, there are many factors that might influence a resident's experience in regional anesthesia (RA). There are few data examining the utilization of regional techniques in an anesthesiology residency program. We undertook a prospective observational study to determine the frequency and reasons for not choosing RA in cases for which it was considered an option.
In vertical infraclavicular brachial plexus block, success depends on distal flexion or extension response. Initially, elbow flexion (lateral cord) is generally observed. However, specific knowledge about how to reach the medial or posterior cord is lacking. We investigated the mid-infraclavicular area in undisturbed anatomy and tested the findings in a clinical setting.
The tibial nerve provides the majority of sensation to the foot. Although multiple techniques have been described, there exists little evidence-based medicine evaluating different techniques for blocking the tibial nerve at the ankle. We hypothesized that an ultrasound (US)-guided tibial nerve block at the ankle would prove more successful than a conventional approach based on surface landmarks.
The aim of this study was to define the sonographic evaluation and morphometric measurements of the suprascapular notch.
Image-guided stereotaxy is a recent advancement in imaging technology, allowing computer guidance to aid surgical planning and accuracy. Despite the use of multiple techniques for patient registration in several surgical specialities, only fiducial marker registration has been described for use in soft tissue reconstructive surgery. The current study comprises an evaluation of the current techniques available for this purpose.
Male genital dysfunction was recognized as a complication following anterior approach lumbar surgery. Disruption of efferent sympathetic pathways such as the abdominal aortic plexus (AAP) and superior hypogastric plexus (SHP) which lied pre-abdominal aorta and iliac artery had been thought as the main reason. Though there were some clinical reports of retrograde ejaculation, the applied anatomic study of the autonomic nerve anterior to the lumbar was little. The purpose was to find out a lumbar surgery approach which was ejaculation preservation through the detailed study of the anatomy and histology observation of the autonomic nerve anterior to the lumbar vertebrae.
Usutu virus belongs to the Flaviviridae viral family and constitutes an important pathogen. The viral helicase is an ideal target for inhibitor design, since this enzyme is essential for the survival, proliferation and transmission of the virus.
The common carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) is considered as a marker of cardiovascular disease, while the value of the common femoral IMT is not well defined. The aim of the present study was to investigate the value of common femoral IMT alone or in combination with the common carotid IMT as a marker of cardiovascular disease in asymptomatic adults.
Recently it has been shown that statins can improve walking distance in patients with peripheral arterial disease. We examined whether statins used in moderate dosages with the aim of reaching the target levels for hypercholesterolemia could improve walking performance in patients with peripheral arterial disease.
Venous thrombosis with and without pulmonary embolism is a frequent complication of malignancies and second among the causes of death in tumour patients. Its incidence is reported to be 10 to 15%. Since for methodological reasons, this rate can be assumed to be too low and to disregard asymptomatic venous thrombosis, a combined retrospective and prospective study was performed to examine the actual frequency of venous thrombosis in tumour patients.
To assess the incidence of malignant tumors in patients with thrombophlebitis of the leg with regard to potential early tumor detection.
To investigate the relationship between the calf muscle pump and the clinical severity of chronic venous disorders (CVD) and of venous function parameters.
Percutaneous left ventricular assist devices are an important tool in the management of patients with severe cardiogenic shock. Limited experiences concerning vascular complications after long term implantation of these devices exist. We report on a large arteriovenous fistula after placement of a left ventricular assist device, which has not been described in the literature. The arteriovenous fistula was of clinical relevance because it represented a supplementary cardiac burden in a patient with impaired left ventricular function after a severe myocardial infarction.
Surgical options for infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and/or its variants are cardiac transplantation or the heart-preserving staged palliation with Norwood operation,followed by a two-staged Fontan procedure. We describe our 17-year experience with staged palliation of HLHS and/or its variants.
Aortic root replacement (ARR) has been recognized as the standard therapy for diseases of the aortic root since its introduction into clinical practice. ARR currently provides excellent long-term benefit with acceptable perioperative risk and excellent long-term morbidity and mortality. During ARR, coronary button misalignment may produce myocardial ischemia, ventricular arrhythmias, and pump failure leading to death if unrecognized. Here we review our experience with coronary insufficiency after ARR.
The widespread use of high-resolution ultrasound (US) has allowed the detection of not only nonpalpable thyroid nodules but also parathyroid incidentalomas in the general population. We sought to determine the prevalence of parathyroid incidentalomas in a large group of patients referred for US-guided fineneedle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of suspected thyroid nodules and to investigate the role of additional parathyroid hormone (PTH) analysis in the washouts of FNAB of suspicious papathyroid nodules in these patients.
Antibiotic resistance of Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes) is a growing phenomenon in the wake of widespread use of topical and systemic antibiotics for acne vulgaris. Benzoyl peroxide has a proven track record of safety and efficacy, and can decrease reliance on antibiotics in the treatment of acne.
Studies indicate photodynamic therapy is an effective treatment of inflammatory acne lesions on patients with Fitzpatrick skin types 1-3. There is a lack of evidence in the literature regarding the use of photodynamic therapy to treat acne vulgaris in African American patients. This article reports the first case of blue light photodynamic therapy to treat moderate inflammatory facial acne on an African American patient with type 5 skin.
Kidney transplants are effective and efficient but not without complications. About 7% to 12% of kidney transplants fail within a year, and rates of failure increase over time. Graft failure can have profound effects, often resulting in depression and, occasionally, suicidal feelings. Despite these issues, the personal dimensions of graft failure have been poorly researched.
Very little research has focused on the long-term caregiving demands associated with parenting a child after a transplant or on the parents' perceptions of those demands.
Limited organ availability and an increasing demand for organ transplantation has extended transplant waiting times and thus increased morbidity and mortality for potential recipients on waiting lists. The Queensland Liver Transplant Service identified use of clinical practice guidelines developed from evidence-based practice as a strategic clinical management/workflow tool that could improve clinical outcomes for patients awaiting liver transplant.
Caregivers are essential members of the health care team who provide care, valued at more than $250 billion each year, to millions of persons who require assistance with health and daily care. Patients with respiratory diseases who are waiting for a lung transplant are required to have an identified caregiver. The caregivers are rarely studied.
Influenza viral infections cause significant morbidity and mortality each season. Lung transplant patients may be at higher risk because of their underlying pathophysiology. Although annual immunization is the standard of care, its efficacy remains largely unproven. Previous studies showed poor antibody response to influenza vaccine in lung transplant patients, but no data on the antibody response in consecutive seasons have been published.
The degree to which patients are knowledgeable about posttransplant care can affect outcomes and patients' satisfaction. Transplant team members must identify knowledge gaps, contributory factors, and innovative methods to address learning needs.
Public education campaigns about organ donation are common, but their association to actual attitudes, beliefs, and decisions about organ donation among family members of donation-eligible individuals is unknown.
Deficiencies in the donation process continue to contribute to the shortage of organs available for transplant. Continuous quality improvement of hospitals' donation processes is needed to identify and correct the problems.
Fluid control in patients on dialysis is an important predictor of outcome but is a difficult restriction to achieve. The authors examined the association between dialysis staff encouragement and fluid control adherence in patients on hemodialysis.
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is being extended across South Africa. While efforts have been made to assess the costs of providing ART via accredited service points, little information is available on its downstream costs, particularly in public secondary level hospitals.
Obesity leads to increased risk of cardiovascular disease and glucose intolerance, which are phenomena of chronic inflammation. This study was performed to determine whether a higher body mass index (BMI) and central obesity are associated with low-grade inflammation.
Metabolic syndrome and obesity are risk factors for developing type 2 diabetes mellitus and/or cardiovascular disease, especially stroke. There is evidence worldwide of the high prevalence of these pathologies in health care providers.
The South African Stress and Health (SASH) study is the first large-scale population-based study of common mental disorders in the country. This paper provides data on the 12-month and lifetime prevalence of these conditions.
Europe and North America have low rates of mental health service use despite high rates of mental disorder. Little is known about mental health service use among South Africans.
There are limited data on substance use in South Africa. We describe patterns of substance use based on recent, nationally representative data.
Mental disorders are a major contributor to the burden of disease in all regions of the world. There are limited data on the epidemiology of major depressive disorder in South Africa.
Although stressful life events (SLEs) are associated with psychopathology, the contribution from distal and proximal events and the specificity of their association with common mental disorders require further exploration. We examined the association of recent life events and past adversities to mood, anxiety, substance use and impulse control disorders in South Africa.
A nationally representative study of psychiatric disorders in South Africa provided an opportunity to study the association between perpetration of human rights violations (HRVs) during apartheid and psychiatric disorder. Prior work has suggested an association between perpetration and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), but this remains controversial.
There are few reports from South Africa on how common mental disorders may be associated with HIV-related perceptions and behaviours.
Since 1968, when the Yusho poisoning incident occurred, annual physical, dermatological, dental, and ophthalmological and laboratory examinations, collectively called Yusho health checks, have been conducted for Yusho patients. The Yusho incident was a health hazard caused by intake of rice-bran oil contaminated with PCB and PeCDF; therefore, since 2001 the levels of dioxins such as PeCDF in the blood have been measured in applicants. Here, we investigated correlations among findings from various medical examinations and those between those findings and PeCDF, PCB, and PCQ.
Non-invasive surrogate measures which are valid and responsive to change are needed to study cardiovascular risks in HIV. We compared the construct validity of two noninvasive arterial measures: carotid intima medial thickness (IMT), which measures anatomic disease; and brachial flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD), a measure of endothelial dysfunction.
Strict control of blood glucose and blood pressure levels sometimes fails to delay the development of diabetic nephropathy, and an effective therapy is not yet available. The present study aimed to examine whether the prostaglandin I(2) analog beraprost sodium (BPS) ameliorates diabetic nephropathy in Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rat.
Living kidney donation is on the rise and acceptance criteria for potential donors are evolving to include more 'complex' patients such as kidney stone formers. Transplant centers are faced with sparse data on patient outcomes when evaluating potential donors who are stone formers; thus, attitudes and practice can differ greatly between centers.
Accumulating evidence suggests that vitamin D and its analogs reduce proteinuria and slow the decline in kidney function in chronic kidney disease. Given a rich literature identifying podocyte apoptosis as an early step in the pathophysiological progression to proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis, we hypothesized that vitamin D protects podocytes from undergoing apoptosis.
Identifying patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease is important in managing patients undergoing hemodialysis.
Ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is a risk factor for the development of interstitial fibrosis. Previously we had shown that after renal IRI, bone marrow-derived cells (BMDC) can differentiate to interstitial myofibroblasts. Here we hypothesized that the immunosuppressant ciclosporin A (CsA), known for its profibrotic side effect, promotes myofibroblast differentiation of BMDC in the postischemic kidney.
Few studies have rigorously evaluated whether providing biologically based health-risk feedback is more effective than standard interventions in increasing smokers' motivation to quit and their long-term abstinence.
NCT00169260.
In light of previous research indicating that many patients fail to receive timely diagnostic follow-up of positive colorectal cancer (CRC) screening tests, the Veterans Health Administration (VA) initiated a national CRC diagnosis quality-improvement (QI) effort.
Steps/day guidelines for children aged 12 years and under are 12,000 to 16,000. There are limited reports in the literature on how many steps/day adolescents need to meet the 60-minutes/day moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) recommendation. This study aimed to determine the steps/day that correctly classifies adolescents as meeting the 60-minute recommendation using objective measures.
Mammography capacity in the U.S. reportedly is adequate, but has not been examined in nonmetropolitan areas. This study examined the relationships between in-county mammography facilities and rates of mammography screening and late-stage diagnosis of breast cancers.
Secondhand smoke (SHS) is a major threat to public health worldwide. Previous studies have suggested that home smoking bans effectively reduce SHS exposure to nonsmokers in the home. In China, the world's largest tobacco producer and consumer, more than 540 million nonsmokers are exposed to SHS. However, to our knowledge, no published studies have examined the prevalence or correlates of home smoking bans in mainland China. This paper presents a quantitative study on home smoking bans in an urbanizing community in Shanghai, China.
Despite the acknowledged promise of developing a public health systems research (PHSR) agenda for emergency preparedness, there has been no systematic review of the literature in this area. The purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic literature review in order to identify and characterize the PHSR literature produced in the U.S. in the past 11 years in the field of public health emergency preparedness.
Patient mammogram reminders are effective but have not been fully implemented in practice to improve routine screening. The effectiveness of implementation and maintenance phases of a multimodal reminder program that incorporated automated calls capable of efficiently reaching large numbers of women was evaluated to improve repeat mammography screening.
Asthma prevalence among U.S. adults is estimated to be 6.7%. People with asthma are at increased risk of complications from influenza. Influenza vaccination of adults and children with asthma is recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. The Healthy People 2010 Objectives call for annual influenza vaccination of at least 60% of adults aged 18-64 years with asthma and other conditions associated with an increased risk of complications from influenza.
Social smoking is increasingly prevalent and poses a challenge to traditional cessation practices. Tobacco companies conducted extensive research on social smokers long before health authorities did and marketed products to promote this smoking behavior.
Parents are often involved in interventions to engage youth in physical activity, but it is not clear which methods for involving parents are effective.
There is an intense interest in the possibility that neighborhood characteristics influence active transportation such as walking or biking. The purpose of this paper is to illustrate how a spatial cluster identification method can evaluate the geographic variation of active transportation and identify neighborhoods with unusually high/low levels of active transportation.
Malate synthase catalyzes the second step of the glyoxylate bypass, the condensation of acetyl coenzyme A and glyoxylate to form malate and coenzyme A (CoA). In several microorganisms, the glyoxylate bypass is of general importance to microbial pathogenesis. The predicted malate synthase G of Pseudomonas aeruginosa has also been implicated in virulence of this opportunistic pathogen.
Interaction graphs (signed directed graphs) provide an important qualitative modeling approach for Systems Biology. They enable the analysis of causal relationships in cellular networks and can even be useful for predicting qualitative aspects of systems dynamics. Fundamental issues in the analysis of interaction graphs are the enumeration of paths and cycles (feedback loops) and the calculation of shortest positive/negative paths. These computational problems have been discussed only to a minor extent in the context of Systems Biology and in particular the shortest signed paths problem requires algorithmic developments.
Prior to cluster analysis or genetic network analysis it is customary to filter, or remove genes considered to be irrelevant from the set of genes to be analyzed. Often genes whose variation across samples is less than an arbitrary threshold value are deleted. This can improve interpretability and reduce bias.
Delta opioid peptide [D-ala2,D-leU5]enkephalin (DADLE) induces hibernation in summer ground squirrels, and enhances preservation and survival of isolated or transplanted lungs and hearts. In the present study, we investigated the protective effect of DADLE in the central nervous system.
TGF-beta receptor type I is a mediator of growth inhibitory signals. TGFBR1*6A (rs11466445) is a common polymorphic variant of the TGF-beta receptor I gene and has been associated with tumour susceptibility. Nevertheless, the role of this polymorphism as a risk factor for colorectal cancer is controversial. The aim of this study was to assess the association between TGFBR1*6A and colorectal cancer, age, sex, tumour location and tumour stage in a Spanish population.
AVE9633 is a new immunoconjugate comprising a humanized monoclonal antibody, anti-CD33 antigen, linked through a disulfide bond to the maytansine derivative DM4, a cytotoxic agent and potent tubulin inhibitor. It is undergoing a phase I clinical trial. Chemoresistance to anti-mitotic agents has been shown to be related, in part, to overexpression of ABC proteins. The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential roles of P-gp, MRP1 and BCRP in cytotoxicity in AVE9633-induced acute myeloid leukaemia (AML).
Ser-249 TP53 mutation (249(Ser)) is a molecular evidence for aflatoxin-related carcinogenesis in Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) and it is frequent in some African and Asian regions, but it is unusual in Western countries. HBV has been claimed to add a synergic effect on genesis of this particular mutation with aflatoxin. The aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of 249(Ser) mutation in HCC from patients in Brazil.
The CXC chemokine, CXCL12, and its receptor, CXCR4 promote metastases of a variety of solid tumors, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The expression of CXCR4 on tumor cells may represent a critical biomarker for their propensity to metastasize. This study was performed to evaluate the hypothesis that co-expression of pan-cytokeratin and CXCR4 may be a prognostic marker for patients with advanced NSCLC.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) -containing macrophages and neutrophils have been described at sites of plaque rupture. The presence of these cells in precursor lesions to acute rupture (thin cap atheroma, or vulnerable plaque) and within thrombi adjacent to ruptures has not been described, nor an association with iron-containing macrophages within unstable plaques.
Elevated levels of FMR1 mRNA in blood have been implicated in RNA toxicity associated with a number of clinical conditions. Due to the extensive inter-sample variation in the time lapse between the blood collection and RNA extraction in clinical practice, the resulting variation in mRNA quality significantly confounds mRNA analysis by real-time PCR.
While there are compelling observational data confirming that individuals who exercise are healthier, the efficacy of aerobic exercise interventions to reduce metabolic risk and improve insulin sensitivity in older people has not been fully elucidated. Furthermore, while low birth weight has been shown to predict adverse health outcomes later in life, its influence on the response to aerobic exercise is unknown. Our primary objective is to assess the efficacy of a fully supervised twelve week aerobic exercise intervention in reducing clustered metabolic risk in healthy older adults. A secondary objective is to determine the influence of low birth weight on the response to exercise in this group.
Current Controlled Trials: ISRCTN60986572.
The plant hormone auxin directs many aspects of plant growth and development. To understand the evolution of auxin signalling, we compared the genes encoding two families of crucial transcriptional regulators, AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR (ARF) and AUXIN/INDOLE-3-ACETIC ACID (Aux/IAA), among flowering plants and two non-seed plants, Physcomitrella patens and Selaginella moellendorffii.
The intertidal copepod Tigriopus californicus is a model for studying the process of genetic divergence in allopatry and for probing the nature of genetic changes that lead to reproductive isolation. Although previous studies have revealed a pattern of remarkably high levels of genetic divergence between the populations of this species at several spatial scales, it is not clear what types of historical processes are responsible. Particularly lacking are data that can yield insights into population history from the finest scales of geographic resolution.
Malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is commonly seen in patients with advanced gastric-, pancreatic-, duodenal, hepatobiliary or metastatic malignancies. Ten to 25% of patients with pancreatic cancer will develop duodenal obstruction during the course of the disease. Duodenal stenting with self-expandable metal stents is an alternative treatment to surgical bypass procedures. Our aim was to review the published literature regarding treatment of malignant GOO with stents to reveal whether the information provided is sufficient to evaluate the clinical effects of this treatment
Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus has been increasing in incidence in the U.S. over the past several decades, particularly among white males. The factors driving the racial disparity in adenocarcinomas rates are not well understood.
Filarial nematode parasites cause serious diseases such as elephantiasis and river blindness in humans, and heartworm infections in dogs. Third stage filarial larvae (L3) are a critical stage in the life cycle of filarial parasites, because this is the stage that is transmitted by arthropod vectors to initiate infections in mammals. Improved understanding of molecular mechanisms associated with this transition may provide important leads for development of new therapies and vaccines to prevent filarial infections. This study explores changes in gene expression associated with the transition of Brugia malayi third stage larvae (BmL3) from mosquitoes into mammalian hosts and how these changes are affected by radiation. Radiation effects are especially interesting because irradiated L3 induce partial immunity to filarial infections. The underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for the efficacy of such vaccines are unkown.
Meta-analysis of QTLs combines the results of several QTL detection studies and provides narrow confidence intervals for meta-QTLs, permitting easier positional candidate gene identification. It is usually applied to multiple mapping populations, but can be applied to one. Here, a meta-analysis of drought related QTLs in the Bala x Azucena mapping population compiles data from 13 experiments and 25 independent screens providing 1,650 individual QTLs separated into 5 trait categories; drought avoidance, plant height, plant biomass, leaf morphology and root traits. A heat map of the overlapping 1 LOD confidence intervals provides an overview of the distribution of QTLs. The programme BioMercator is then used to conduct a formal meta-analysis at example QTL clusters to illustrate the value of meta-analysis of QTLs in this population.
Multi-drug-resistant, extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae, constitute an emerging public-health concern. Little data on the molecular epidemiology of ESBL producing Escherichia coli is available in Germany. Here we describe the prevalence and molecular epidemiology of ESBL producing-Escherichia coli isolates at a German University hospital.
The purpose of this study was to further characterize the immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) antigens, in order to provide new insight into host-pathogen interactions in tuberculosis (TB), and to offer tools for a more accurate diagnosis of the different stages of TB.
Lower-than-expected incidence of HIV undermines sample size calculations and compromises the power of a HIV prevention trial. We evaluated the effectiveness of interim monitoring of HIV infection rates and on-going modification of recruitment strategies to enroll women at higher risk of HIV in the Cellulose Sulfate Phase III study in Nigeria.
The trial was registered with the ClinicalTrials.gov registry under #NCT00120770 http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00120770.
Helicobacter pylori is a major gastric bacterial pathogen. This pathogen has been shown to follow the routes of human migration by their geographical origin and currently the global H. pylori population has been divided into six ancestral populations, three from Africa, two from Asia and one from Europe. Malaysia is made up of three major ethnic populations, Malay, Chinese and Indian, providing a good population for studying recent H. pylori migration and admixture.
Each year, approximately 12,000 Australians of working age survive a stroke. As a group, younger stroke survivors have less physical impairment and lower mortality after stroke compared with older survivors; however, the psychosocial and economic consequences are potentially substantial. Most of these younger stroke survivors have responsibility for generating an income or providing family care and indicate that their primary objective is to return to work. However, effective vocational rehabilitation strategies to increase the proportion of younger stroke survivors able to return to work, and information on the key target areas for those strategies, are currently lacking.
Neurological diseases and neuropsychiatric disorders that vary depending on female life stages suggest that sex hormones may influence the function of neurotransmitter regulatory machinery such as the dopamine transporter (DAT).
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a small secreted protein that has important roles in the developing and adult nervous system. Altered expression or changes in the regulation of the BDNF gene have been implicated in a variety of human nervous system disorders. Although regulation of the rodent BDNF gene has been extensively investigated, in vivo studies regarding the human BDNF gene are largely limited to postmortem analysis. Bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice harboring the human BDNF gene and its regulatory flanking sequences constitute a useful tool for studying human BDNF gene regulation and for identification of therapeutic compounds modulating BDNF expression.
Transgenic approaches provide a powerful tool for gene function investigations in plants. However, some legumes are still recalcitrant to current transformation technologies, limiting the extent to which functional genomic studies can be performed on. Superroot of Lotus corniculatus is a continuous root cloning system allowing direct somatic embryogenesis and mass regeneration of plants. Recently, a technique to obtain transgenic L. corniculatus plants from Superroot-derived leaves through A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation was described. However, transformation efficiency was low and it took about six months from gene transfer to PCR identification.
DNA ligase enzymes catalyse the joining of adjacent polynucleotides and as such play important roles in DNA replication and repair pathways. Eukaryotes possess multiple DNA ligases with distinct roles in DNA metabolism, with clear differences in the functions of DNA ligase orthologues between animals, yeast and plants. DNA ligase 1, present in all eukaryotes, plays critical roles in both DNA repair and replication and is indispensable for cell viability.
Polyploidy (whole-genome duplication) is an important speciation mechanism, particularly in plants. Gene loss, silencing, and the formation of novel gene complexes are some of the consequences that the new polyploid genome may experience. Despite the recurrent nature of polyploidy, little is known about the genomic outcome of independent polyploidization events. Here, we analyze the fate of genes duplicated by polyploidy (homoeologs) in multiple individuals from ten natural populations of Tragopogon miscellus (Asteraceae), all of which formed independently from T. dubius and T. pratensis less than 80 years ago.
The use of tocolytics is central in delaying birth; however, therapeutic options vary in effectiveness and adverse events profiles, which in turn could have consequences for medical resource use and cost of treatment. Betamimetics are commonly used tocolytic agents, but their mechanism of action affects multiple organ systems leading to numerous adverse events. The availability of an oxytocin receptor antagonist, specific for prevention of preterm labour, offers a treatment option that merits further evaluation. We aimed to compare economic implications of tocolysis using atosiban and betamimetics, considering treatment efficacy and safety, as well as cost consequences of treatment of associated adverse events.
The Middle East is estimated to have the largest increase in prevalence of diabetes by 2030; yet there is lack of published data on the incidence of Type 2 diabetes in this region. This study aimed to estimate Type 2 diabetes incidence and its associated risk factors in an Iranian urban population.
Few studies have examined vitamin D insufficiency in African American men although they are at very high risk. We examined the prevalence and correlates of vitamin D insufficiency among African American men in Philadelphia.
Outside of the United States, evidence for associations between exposure to fast-food establishments and risk for obesity among adults is limited and equivocal. The purposes of this study were to investigate whether the relative availability of different types of food retailers around people's homes was associated with obesity among adults in Edmonton, Canada, and if this association varied as a function of distance between food locations and people's homes.
In the last decade, the number of foreign residents in Spain has doubled and it has become one of the countries in the European Union with the highest number of immigrants There is no doubt that the health of the immigrant population has become a relevant subject from the point of view of public healthcare. Our study aimed at describing the potential inequalities in the use of healthcare resources and in the lifestyles of the resident immigrant population of Spain.
Due to large-scale destruction, changes in membrane diffusion (Dm) may occur in cystic fibrosis (CF), in correspondence to alterations observed by computed tomography (CT). Dm can be easily quantified via the diffusing capacity for nitric oxide (DLNO), as opposed to the conventional diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO). We thus studied the relationship between DLNO as well as DLCO and a CF-specific CT score in patients with stable CF.
In recent years, several stochastic simulation algorithms have been developed to generate Monte Carlo trajectories that describe the time evolution of the behavior of biomolecular reaction networks. However, the effects of various stochastic simulation and data analysis conditions on the observed dynamics of complex biomolecular reaction networks have not received much attention. In order to investigate these issues, we employed a a software package developed in out group, called Biomolecular Network Simulator (BNS), to simulate and analyze the behavior of such systems. The behavior of a hypothetical two gene in vitro transcription-translation reaction network is investigated using the Gillespie exact stochastic algorithm to illustrate some of the factors that influence the analysis and interpretation of these data.
ISTRCN34177180.
There is a wide debate in the literature about whether N2/P3 effects in no-go trials reflect the inhibition of an intended action, or the absence of a negative movement-related potential typical of go trials. The aim of this study was to provide an objective measure of the suppression of irrelevant information (in a conjoined selective visual attention task) under conditions that were perfectly comparable from the viewpoint of the motoric processes involved.
The project aims were to evaluate the benefit of transmucosal midazolam 0.2 mg/kg pre-medication on anxiety, induction behaviour and psychological morbidity in children undergoing general anaesthesia (GA) extractions.
The current study was performed to evaluate outcomes in patients with osteosarcoma of the head and neck (OHN) who were treated with surgery with or without radiotherapy (RT).
Therapy related secondary acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) was commonly associated with prior exposure to alkylating agents or topoisomerase inhibitor. The long-term outcome of such patients with secondary AML was found to be worse than that of patients with de novo AML. Earlier reports suggested similar outcomes for patients with de novo and secondary AML associated with core-binding factor (CBF) abnormalities.
The objective of this study was to determine whether vomiting at presentation of a febrile illness in immunocompromised children with central venous catheters (CVCs) predicts bacteremia.
Invasive breast carcinoma has a more aggressive phenotype and a higher mortality rate in African American (AA) than in Caucasian American (CA) women. The characteristics of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in the AA population have not been extensively studied.
: A growing body of evidence suggests that long-term survivors with 1 of the more common forms of adult cancer report a quality of life (QOL) similar to that in the general population. However, specific concerns have been identified (sexual dysfunction, fatigue, distress) in this population. Also, less is known concerning survivors of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), a disease often marked by alternating periods of disease and remission. Therefore, in the current study, the authors compared the QOL status of individuals who reported having active NHL with the QOL status of individuals who were disease-free short-term survivors (STS) (2-4 years postdiagnosis) and long-term survivors (LTS) (&gt; or =5 years postdiagnosis).
In neoadjuvant chemotherapy for advanced esophageal cancers, complete tumor regression has been difficult to achieve, and tumor often remained after chemotherapy. However, the best method for evaluating the response to chemotherapy based on histopathologic examination of residual tumors has not been established.
A rigorous psychometric methodology was used to develop a measure of unmet needs for cancer survivors' principal support persons. Principal support person was defined as "someone you can count on and who helps you with your needs."
Resistance to apoptosis is 1 of the key events that confer chemoresistance and is mediated by the overexpression of antiapoptotic proteins, which inhibit caspase activation. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the activation of an alternative, caspase-independent cell death pathway could promote death in chemoresistant ovarian cancer cells. The authors report the characterization of NV-128 as an inducer of cell death through a caspase-independent pathway.
Myxoid liposarcoma has been reported to be more radiosensitive compared with other soft tissue sarcomas (STS). The authors report the results of multidisciplinary treatment of extremity myxoid liposarcoma compared with a contemporary cohort of other STS subtypes with an emphasis on the role of radiotherapy (RT) in improving local control.
Abuse in childhood is associated with many negative adult health outcomes. Only 1 study to date has found an association between childhood abuse and cancer. By using a regionally representative community sample, this preliminary study sought to investigate the association between childhood physical abuse and cancer while controlling for 3 clusters of risk factors: childhood stressors, adult health behaviors, and adult socioeconomic status.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death for both men and women, but the disease course differs between the sexes. To the authors' knowledge, sex-based differences in outcomes among the population of nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients receiving radiation have not been well defined.
Metabolic tumor activity using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) was believed to have a predictive value for patient outcome in malignancies. The objective of the current study was to assess the prognostic effectiveness of the highest standardized uptake value (SUV) in the primary or regional area (peak SUV) and the number of PET-positive lymph nodes in esophageal cancer.
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a form of liver damage that can progress to cirrhosis. NASH is associated with obesity and diabetes. The condition also may be associated with some medications, including tamoxifen. Early case reports and small series have documented NASH in patients who received tamoxifen.
Cancer patients with limited English proficiency may need specialized assistance to communicate with health professionals about cancer and clinical trials.
Urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) expression has been shown to correlate with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer (CRC). The authors hypothesized that targeting uPAR, a receptor involved in cell proliferation, migration, invasion, adhesion, and angiogenesis, would impair the growth of CRC in the liver, the most common site of metastasis.
A carboplatin-based chemotherapy regimen was used as primary postoperative therapy in infants with central nervous system (CNS) tumors to limit renal and ototoxicity and to target systemic exposure.
The presence of glutathione S-transferase (GST) pi1 (GSTP1) or multidrug resistance gene 1 (MDR1) promoter methylation in lung cancer was studied for the first time to the authors' knowledge; and, to date, the clinical significance of methylation is not clear. The objective of the current study was to determine the promoter methylation status of GSTP1 and MDR1, which encode GST-pi and P-glycoprotein (Pgp), respectively, in patients with bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (BAC) and to investigate whether methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1)-mediated GSTP1 or MDR1 methylation are responsible for disease progression and prognosis in patients with BAC.
Patients consider their human connection with a physician an important aspect of end-of-life (EOL) care. In this study, the authors sought to develop and validate a measure of therapeutic alliance between patients with advanced cancer and their physicians and to evaluate the effects of therapeutic alliance on EOL experiences and care.
Although many patients take antioxidant dietary supplements during breast cancer treatment, the benefits of such supplementation are unproven. The authors of this report analyzed the prevalence of and factors associated with antioxidant supplement use during breast cancer (BC) treatment among women who participated in the Long Island Breast Cancer Study Project.
Adequate representation of women in research has been deemed essential.
There has been a steep increase in the incidence of adult testicular cancer in many populations, but in spite of numerous studies, the etiology of testicular cancer remains elusive. The time trends of childhood testicular tumors are less clear and have been studied in a few populations. To further evaluate whether or not adult and childhood cancers share trend determinants and whether future adult testicular cancer incidences can be predicted through childhood testicular cancer incidences, their rates were compared.
Using data from the U.S. National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program, we analyzed stomach carcinoma incidence patterns by both histologic type and anatomic site.
Although tissue microarray (TMA) studies of histopathologic material have been frequently reported in studies of malignant diseases, the question of sample size (i.e., the diameter and the number of tissue cylinders investigated) has been rarely discussed. This study addresses the methodologic question of sample size in a variety of tumor types.
Women with deleterious mutations in BRCA genes are at increased risk of breast cancer. However, the penetrance of the genetic trait may be regulated through environmental factors. This multinational case-only study tested the interaction between oral contraceptive use and genetic susceptibility in the occurrence of breast cancer.
N-acetyltransferases (NAT) 1 and 2 are polymorphic enzymes catalyzing the metabolic activation of heterocyclic amines. We investigated the modifying effects of NAT1 and NAT2 polymorphisms on the association of meat consumption, heterocyclic amine intake, and smoking with colorectal cancer risk.
The risk of type 2 diabetes on the development of hepatocellular carcinoma remains inconclusive in different hepatitis statuses.
Increasing evidence suggests that general obesity [measured by body mass index (BMI)] is positively associated with risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). In contrast, previous studies have shown inverse relations with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, it is still unclear whether body fat distribution, particularly abdominal obesity, is associated with each type of esophageal cancer.
Women with a history of preeclampsia have reduced breast cancer risk. Because preeclampsia is characterized by an imbalance in angiogenic factors, we assessed pregnancy levels of placental growth factor (PlGF), soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1), and soluble endoglin (s-endoglin) and subsequent breast cancer risk.
A UK multicenter study compared the performance of contrast enhanced-magnetic resonance imaging with X-Ray Mammography in women at high-risk of breast cancer commencing in 1997. Selection criteria were used to identify women with at least 0.9% annual risk of breast cancer.
Obtaining regular screening exams can significantly reduce colorectal cancer (CRC) mortality. Most CRC models to date have assumed "ideal conditions" such as 100% compliance, and the effects of CRC screening tests have been assessed only under these conditions. In this study, we assess cost-effectiveness incorporating real-world patient preferences and compliance.
In premenopausal women, the sensitivity of screening mammography for detecting breast cancer has been reported to be greater in the follicular phase than in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, which may be due to differences in mammographic density. To examine this possible effect, we compared mammographic density in premenopausal women who had mammograms at different phases of the menstrual cycle.
HIV-positive men with a history of anal-receptive intercourse are at risk for anal cancer. We determined whether human papilloma virus (HPV) biomarkers were correlated with anal pathology in these men.
Promising stool-based screening tests for colorectal carcinoma (CRC) rely on detection of exfoliated colonocytes or their contents. However, methods of colonocyte retrieval have not been studied systematically and current approaches are restricted by low yields. We examined colonocyte numbers in stool wash fractions and assessed the suitability of retrieved cells for immunocytochemistry for minichromosome maintenance protein 2 (MCM2), a marker of the proliferative deregulation that characterizes malignancy.
Although many studies have examined the influence of reproductive factors on ovarian cancer risk, few have investigated their effect on ovarian cancer survival. We examined the prognostic influence of reproductive factors on survival after ovarian cancer diagnosis.
Glucocorticoid is widely used as an anti-inflammatory drug in various diseases however excess of it often causes cardiovascular complications. The present study was undertaken to understand the molecular mechanism of glucocorticoid-induced cardiac dysfunction.
DNA methylation is an important mechanism for gene silencing and has already been described for several genes in breast cancer. A previous immunohistochemistry study demonstrated a decrease of K(v)1.3 potassium channel expression in breast adenocarcinoma compared to normal breast tissue.
Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), has been reported to be associated with glucose metabolism, but its mechanisms remain unknown.
The aims of this study were to describe alcohol use among Norwegian teenagers and investigate the associations between mental health problems and alcohol intoxications with focus on age and gender.
Percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) has become an established therapy for patients with prolonged intubation. It is of utmost importance for respiratory weaning of long-term ventilated patients in modern intensive care medicine. One attempt to bring PDT to perfection is a balloon dilatation technique that exerts mainly radial force to widen the tracheostoma.
The diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly bears many pitfalls due to a broad range of differential diagnoses and uncommon clinical presentation. This may result in late detection of appendicitis leading to poor outcome. The aim of this study was to examine the characteristics of appendicitis in elderly patients in order to facilitate early diagnosis.
Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is an invasive method to assess the functional significance of coronary stenoses. The value of FFR in diabetic patients is controversial because of microvascular dysfunction. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of diabetes mellitus (DM) on FFR measurements.
Endothelial dysfunction has been shown to be independently associated with the occurrence of cardiovascular events. We sought to investigate whether ranolazine, a novel antianginal medication with no effect on heart rate or blood pressure, improves endothelial function in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD).
Cocaine is the most common abused drug in patients presenting to the emergency room with chest pain and frequently leads to cardiac catheterization procedure. The extent of severity underlying coronary artery disease (CAD) in this subgroup of patients has not been well defined. This study set out to define the coronary anatomy as well as the extent of CAD in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction (MI) and correlate that to the presenting electrocardiogram (ECG).
Bronchial challenge tests are used to evaluate bronchial responsiveness in diagnosis and follow-up of asthmatic patients. Challenge induced cough has increasingly been recognized as a valuable diagnostic tool. Various stimuli and protocols have been employed. The aim of this study was to compare cough and dyspnea intensity induced by different stimuli.
Epidemiological studies have provided evidence that exposure to vehicular traffic increases the prevalence of respiratory symptoms and may exacerbate pre-existing asthma in children. Self-reported exposure to road traffic has been questioned as a reliable measurement of exposure to air pollutants. The aim of this study was to investigate whether there were specific effects of cars and trucks traffic on current asthma symptoms (i.e. wheezing) and cough or phlegm, and to examine the validity of self-reported traffic exposure.
The need to identify and try to prevent adverse health impacts of climate change has risen to the forefront of climate change policy debates and become a top priority of the public health community. Given the observed and projected changes in climate and weather patterns, their current and anticipated health impacts, and the significant degree of regulatory discussion underway in the U.S. government, it is reasonable to determine the extent of federal investment in research to understand, avoid, prepare for, and respond to the human health impacts of climate change in the United States.
Exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals during critical developmental periods causes adverse consequences later in life; an example is prenatal exposure to the pharmaceutical diethylstilbestrol (DES). Bisphenol A (BPA), an environmental estrogen used in the synthesis of plastics, is of concern because its chemical structure resembles that of DES, and it is a "high-volume production" chemical with widespread human exposure.
Studies of chronic health effects due to exposures to particulate matter with aerodynamic diameters &lt;or= 2.5 microm (PM(2.5)) are often limited by sparse measurements. Satellite aerosol remote sensing data may be used to extend PM(2.5) ground networks to cover a much larger area.
During the last week of June 2008, central and northern California experienced thousands of forest and brush fires, giving rise to a week of severe fire-related particulate air pollution throughout the region. California experienced PM(10-2.5) (particulate matter with mass median aerodynamic diameter &gt; 2.5 mum to &lt; 10 mum; coarse ) and PM(2.5) (particulate matter with mass median aerodynamic diameter &lt; 2.5 mum; fine) concentrations greatly in excess of the air quality standards and among the highest values reported at these stations since data have been collected.
Although many studies have examined the effects of air pollution on mortality, data limitations have resulted in fewer studies of both particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of &lt;or= 2.5 microm (PM(2.5); fine particles) and of coarse particles (particles with an aerodynamic diameter &gt; 2.5 and &lt; 10 microm; PM coarse). We conducted a national, multicity time-series study of the acute effect of PM(2.5) and PM coarse on the increased risk of death for all causes, cardiovascular disease (CVD), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, and respiratory mortality for the years 1999-2005.
Recent research highlights the promise of remotely sensed aerosol optical depth (AOD) as a proxy for ground-level particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter &lt;or= 2.5 microm (PM(2.5)). Particular interest lies in estimating spatial heterogeneity using AOD, with important application to estimating pollution exposure for public health purposes. Given the correlations reported between AOD and PM(2.5), it is tempting to interpret the spatial patterns in AOD as reflecting patterns in PM(2.5).
Bisphenol A (BPA) is widely used in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics, including infant formula bottles.
Developmental exposure to a wide variety of developmental neurotoxicants, including organophosphate pesticides, evokes late-emerging and persistent abnormalities in acetylcholine (ACh) systems. We are seeking interventions that can ameliorate or reverse the effects later in life.
Perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs) are found globally in wildlife and humans and are suspected to act as endocrine disruptors. There are no previous reports of PFAA levels in adult men from Denmark or of a possible association between semen quality and PFAA exposure.
There is concern about the potential risk posed by compounds with estrogen-like activity present in the environment. As previous studies have shown that combined exposure to such compounds results in dose additivity, it should be possible to assess estrogen exposure with suitable biomarkers of effect.
Fine particulate matter [aerodynamic diameter &lt;/= 2.5 mum (PM(2.5))] has been associated with autonomic dysregulation.
Lead is known to be a health hazard to the human brain and nervous system based on data from epidemiologic studies. However, few studies have examined the mechanism or biochemical changes caused by lead in the human brain, although recently some have used magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to test brain metabolism in vivo.
Recent evidence has shown that humans metabolize benzene more efficiently at environmental air concentrations than at concentrations &gt; 1 ppm. This led us to speculate that an unidentified metabolic pathway was mainly responsible for benzene metabolism at ambient levels.
As part of an ongoing medical surveillance program for U.S. veterans exposed to depleted uranium (DU), biological monitoring of urine uranium (U) concentrations is offered to any veteran of the Gulf War and those serving in more recent conflicts (post-Gulf War veterans).
Population-based studies have estimated health risks of short-term exposure to fine particles using mass of PM(2.5) (particulate matter &lt;or= 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter) as the indicator. Evidence regarding the toxicity of the chemical components of the PM(2.5) mixture is limited.
Research suggests that independent and joint effects of genetic variability in the dopamine transporter (DAT) locus and pesticides may influence Parkinson's disease (PD) risk.
Understanding the progression from beryllium exposure (BeE) to chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is essential for optimizing screening and early intervention to prevent CBD.
Respiratory symptoms, either newly reported after the World Trade Center (WTC) disaster on 11 September 2001 (9/11) or increased in severity, have been well documented in WTC-exposed workers and New York City residents. However, considerable uncertainty exists over the persistence of symptoms.
Exposure to arsenic is a critical risk factor in the complex interplay among genetics, the environment, and human disease. Despite the potential for in utero exposure, the mechanism of arsenic action on vertebrate development and disease is unknown.
Agricultural workers are exposed to airborne pollutants, including organic and inorganic (mineral) dusts.
Air pollution has consistently been associated with increased morbidity and mortality due to respiratory and cardiovascular disease. Underlying biological mechanisms are not entirely clear, and hemostasis and inflammation are suggested to be involved.
The etiology of childhood brain cancer remains largely unknown. However, previous studies have yielded suggestive associations with parental pesticide use.
Incidence of childhood leukemia in industrialized countries rose significantly during 1975-2004, and the reasons for the increase are not understood.
An increasing number of studies have shown that several ubiquitous environmental contaminants possess thyroid hormone-disrupting capacities. Prenatal exposure to some of them, such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), has also been associated with adverse neurodevelopmental effects in infants.
In this study, we have compared attitudes of two social groups within the Israeli-Muslim population in order to examine the influence of modernization on the use of traditional and Complementary/Alternative Medicine (CAM).
Research in cancer care satisfaction itself is scarce; investigation of the role of ethnicity in care satisfaction is even rarer.
The characteristics and fate of intraluminal thrombus (IT), which may incidentally be detected in acute stroke patients, are not well known and the optimal treatment strategy for IT remains controversial.
Central hyperthermia is an unresolved riddle; this study tries to define its characteristics.
Cerebral hypoperfusion caused by large vessel atherosclerosis has been suggested to be associated with the pathogenesis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Atherosclerosis and AD share risk factors such as age, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension and apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE epsilon4) allele. We studied the association between atherosclerosis of the circle of Willis (CW) and AD neuropathology in a large autopsy sample.
High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) is a sensitive systemic marker of inflammation, and increased levels of hs-CRP are associated with inflammatory reactions. Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation has been hypothesized to play an important role in the pathogenesis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the clinical value of hs-CRP in PD is poorly defined. Therefore, we conducted this study to investigate the clinical value of hs-CRP in patients with PD.
Secondary pharmacological prevention of ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) is often provided with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), dipyridamole (DP) or a combination of the two. A problem with DP is the occurrence of headache, sometimes leading to medication cessation. By using a titration regime of DP the incidence of headache gets lower. However, there are no studies on interindividual differences in the incidence of headache with regard to age, gender, localization of stroke and the number of days since stroke onset.
The electronic Schizophrenia Treatment Adherence Registry (e-STAR) is a prospective, observational study of patients with schizophrenia designed to evaluate long-term treatment outcomes in routine clinical practice.
Individuals with psychosis are known to have a lower self-esteem compared to the general population, in part because of social stigma, paternalistic care, long periods of institutionalization and negative family interactions. This study aimed at assessing the efficacy of a self-esteem enhancement program for individuals with severe mental illness and at analyzing the results in their European context.
Depression after childbirth is a major problem affecting 10-22% of all mothers. In Italy, postnatal depression has not yet been systematically studied.
The increasing knowledge indicated that borderline hypothyroidism may cause neurodevelopmental disorders. Borderline compensated congenital hypothyroidism could caused by iodine deficiency or iodine overload. One of the most important etiological factors causing prolonged jaundice in the neonatal period is congenital hypothyroidism. Aimed of this study is to investigate the frequency of borderline or overt hypothyroidism in a group of newborn with prolonged physiological jaundice, and to evaluate iodine status of these babies and their mothers.
It is widely recognized that a multidisciplinary team is effective in the management of diabetic foot ulcers. Contrary to developed countries, multidisciplinary diabetic foot care teams and/or clinics have not been constructed in most centres in developing countries. The aim of this study was to present our data regarding amputation rates and profiles before and after starting the Dokuz Eylul University multidisciplinary diabetic foot care team.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a serious health and social problem. We assessed the prevalence of DM and metabolic syndrome in an urban population in southern Poland.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea and consecutive meningitis are well recognised clinical features of macroprolactinomas invading the skull base and are mainly observed under a dopamine-agonist therapy regimen. To our knowledge, a clinical case of primary meningitis due to an untreated macroprolactinoma, without any history of rhinorrhea, has not been reported previously in the English literature.
Mobile-bearing ankle replacements have become popular outside of the United States over the past two decades. The goal of the present study was to perform a prospective evaluation of the safety and efficacy of a mobile-bearing prosthesis to treat end stage ankle arthritis. We report the results of three separate cohorts of patients: a group of Scandanavian Total Ankle Replacement (STAR) patients and a control group of ankle fusion patients (the Pivotal Study Groups) and another group of STAR total ankle patients (Continued Access Group) whose surgery was performed following the completion of enrollment in the Pivotal Study.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of rhBMP-2 on bone healing in patients who undergo high-risk ankle &amp; hindfoot fusions.
In many reports describing flatfoot deformities, the abnormality is described using observations from physical examination, radiographs, or foot imprints. Correlation of these measurements is often lacking, making determination of the magnitude of the deformity or its surgical correction difficult to quantify.
Due to advances in technology, segmental gait analysis of the foot is now possible and can elucidate hindfoot deformity in persons with posterior tibial tendon dysfunction (PTTD). This study evaluated the motion of the hindfoot and ankle power following surgical reconstruction for PTTD utilizing a segmental foot model during gait.
Preoperative education and discussion is a crucial part of the surgeon-patient relationship. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of a multimedia education tool to improve patients' understanding when used as an adjunct to the usual verbal consent process regarding first metatarsophalangeal joint (MTPJ) arthrodesis surgery.
Achilles tendinosis and chronic Achilles tendon ruptures are relatively frequently encountered by orthopaedic surgeons. One treatment for patients who fail to respond to conservative management involves augmentation of the repair with transfer of the flexor hallucis longus (FHL), using either a single-incision or double-incision technique. Despite the frequency of this procedure, little is known about the associated donor morbidity. We report the effects of the single-incision technique on hallux function.
Arthrodesis is the most common procedure used to treat end-stage osteoarthritis of the ankle, particularly in patients with difficult conditions such as poor bone quality. While many techniques are available to fuse the ankle, current recommendations favor the use of internal fixation with screws and/or plates. Despite of progress, the complication rate remains a major concern. Non-union is one difficult problem especially with difficult bone conditions, particularly the loss of bone stock on the talar side. Therefore, fusion of the tibiotalar joint is often extended to the talocalcaneal joint to provide sufficient stability. To preserve the subtalar joint, an anterior double plate system for rigid fixation of isolated tibiotalar arthrodesis was developed. This is a preliminary report on the clinical and radiological outcome with this technique.
The nature of the sesamoid complex in the development of hallux rigidus or limitus (HL) has been poorly characterized and the role of the sesamoids in the surgical management of this condition has not been explored. Previous surgical approaches in younger active patients unsuited to destructive procedures have been limited.
Obtaining a successful subtalar fusion in the pediatric population can be challenging. We present our results with a modified extraarticular method.
The authors the short-term and mid-term results of patients with their preoperative status who were surgically treated for advanced Grade III and early Grade IV symptomatic hallux rigidus using the Futura Hemi-Great Toe Implant.
A number of non-operative interventions are used to manage Achilles tendinopathy. In particular, local glucocorticoid injections have generated controversy. Although a number of case reports indicate symptomatic relief following glucocorticoid injection, one systematic review found little evidence to support their efficacy. Furthermore, local glucocorticoid injections may be associated with rupture of the Achilles tendon. This systematic review considered all available clinical trials measuring the effect of local glucocorticoid injections on symptom relief in patients with Achilles tendinopathy.
It is commonly believed that early motion after joint fixation is advantageous, especially in the upper limb. In the ankle joint this is much less clear. No previous systematic review of the evidence for this could be found in the literature.
Non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy is an increasing, perhaps secondary to an increase in sporting activities. Traditional open surgical procedures have been associated with a significant rate of complications. We describe a minimally invasive technique involving the release of the adherent paratenon with a peritendinous infusion of corticosteroids and present the results in a cohort of patients.
Reported ankle fusion healing times vary between 7 to 72 weeks. High non-union and delayed union rates have led to an increased use of bone graft and bone graft substitutes. It was our goal to see if addition of a bone slurry could accelerate the rate of healing.
In the assessment of lateral ankle instability, the anterior drawer test has been found to be inaccurate and the focus on pure anterior translation cannot properly perceive the anterolateral rotatory nature of the talar displacement. In order to address this, the anterolateral drawer test can be done with digital palpation of the talar displacement anterolaterally with a controlled angle of plantarflexion as well as application of the translational force.
Internal fixation of osteoporotic ankle fractures is associated with failure of fixation. This study compared different augmentation methods biomechanically.
Recent developments in SNP discovery and high throughput genotyping technology have made the use of high-density SNP markers to predict breeding values feasible. This involves estimation of the SNP effects in a training data set, and use of these estimates to evaluate the breeding values of other 'evaluation' individuals. Simulation studies have shown that these predictions of breeding values can be accurate, when training and evaluation individuals are (closely) related. However, many general applications of genomic selection require the prediction of breeding values of 'unrelated' individuals, i.e. individuals from the same population, but not particularly closely related to the training individuals.
Tumours and metastases of the lateral skull base are rare findings. Clinically, the progressive involvement of ipsilateral cranial nerves is important.
Acute trauma with laryngeal fracture is a rare injury affecting all functions of the larynx. Resuscitation follows the ABC principles for acute trauma life support. The priority has always been the establishment of an adequate and secure airway. To achieve optimal therapeutic long-term results, permanent stabilisation of the airway and good functional restoration of phonation and swallowing are necessary. We describe the therapy and long-term follow-up of two patients who suffered laryngeal fracture.
The Functioning After Pediatric Cochlear Implantation (FAPCI) instrument was recently developed to determine the communicative performance of 2-5-year-old prelingually deafened, cochlear-implanted children. Because of its high reliability and validity, as well as possible additional information compared with existing questionnaires, the 23-item parent-proxy questionnaire was translated from U.S. English to German prior to validation.
Informational masking (IM) refers to the problem of understanding target speech in the simultaneous presence of a masking speech signal. The adverse effects are attributable to the additional information provided by the competing talker. Cochlear implant (CI) recipients are not able to understand speech satisfactorily in situations such as these. The aim of the present study is to examine the extent to which CI recipients are able to use differences between the speakers with respect to level (target-to-masker ratio, TMR) and fundamental frequency (f0) in order to improve speech intelligibility.
Cerumen impaction is known as a frequent problem both in general practice as well as in community based ENT surgeries. The aim of the present review was to describe the frequency and types of complications due to different methods of ear wax removal.
Surgery has become heavily dependent on accurate imaging in the assessment and treatment of suspected or confirmed intra-abdominal malignancy. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) fuses uptake of a radiotracer combined with CT images to assess both functional tissue activity and anatomical detail. Since its introduction it has offered new ways of treating gastrointestinal cancers.
In a previous study we reported an 85% R1 rate for pancreatic cancer following the use of the rigorous, fully standardized Leeds Pathology Protocol (LEEPP). As this significantly exceeded R1 rates observed by others, we investigated the reproducibility of margin assessment using the LEEPP in a larger, prospective, observational cohort study and correlated clinicopathological data with survival.
Pancreatic occlusion failure (POF) after distal pancreatectomy remains a common source of morbidity. Here, we review our experience with distal pancreatectomy and attempt to identify factors which influence POF rates.
Stapler-assisted hepatectomy has not been well established, as a routine procedure, although few reports exist in the literature. This analysis assesses the safety and outcome of the method based on peri-operative data.
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) has been implied in the pathogenesis of various diseases including acute and chronic pancreatitis. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) is the key enzyme in activating the RAS. Deletion (D)-type polymorphism in the 16th intron of the ACE gene has been associated with higher serum levels of the enzyme. Inhibition of ACE was found to ameliorate acute pancreatitis in animal models suggesting that ACE plays a role in pathogenesis and progression of acute pancreatitis. Objectives were to investigate the occurrence of the ACE insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism in acute pancreatitis patients and its association with the severity of the disease.
Quality improvement in high-acuity surgery increasingly relies on clinical pathways to streamline patient care and to maximize cost-efficiency. Yet, it remains unclear whether immediate pre-operative hospitalization (non-elective resection) influences operative performance and to what extent it alters the post-operative course.
In addition to the biochemical components secreted in bile, aquaporin (AQP) water channels exist in hepatocyte membranes to form conduits for water movement between the sinusoid and the bile canaliculus. The aim of the current study was to analyse AQP 9 expression and localization in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and non-tumourigenic liver (NTL) tissue from patients undergoing hepatic resection.
Recurrent pyogenic cholangitis (RPC) is still a common disease in East Asia. The present study reviews the operative results for this disease in a single centre.
Milan and University of California San Francisco (UCSF) Criteria have been used for selection of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) for liver transplantation (LTx). The aims of this study were to analyse the results of LTx for HCC in Australia and New Zealand with emphasis on the effects of discordance between pre-LTx radiological and post-LTx pathological staging.
Blunt (non-anatomical) debridement of necrotic tissue at laparotomy is the standard method of treatment of infected post-inflammatory pancreatic necrosis. Recognition that laparotomy may add to morbidity by increasing postoperative organ dysfunction has led to the development of alternative, minimally invasive methods for debridement. This study reports the status of minimally invasive necrosectomy by different approaches.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NC(+)) and portal vein embolization (PVE) enables curative resection in more patients with colorectal-liver metastases (CRLM). However, after NC(+), structural alterations have been reported with the risk of post-operative hepatic failure. We undertook to determine if NC(+) toxicity limits future remnant liver (FRL) hypertrophy after PVE.
Liver transplantation involves a period of ischemia and reperfusion to the graft which leads to primary non-function and dysfunction of the liver in 5-10% of cases. Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) has been shown to reduce ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) injury to the liver and increase hepatic blood flow. We hypothesized that RIPC may directly modulate hepatic microcirculation and have investigated this using intravital microscopy.
The majority of patients with pancreatic cancer are non-resectable and jaundiced at presentation. Methods of palliation in such patients with locally advanced disease comprise endoscopic placement of a biliary endoprosthesis or surgical bypass.
Atrophy-hypertrophy complex (AHC) of the liver rarely complicates post-cholecystectomy benign biliary strictures (BBS). This study aimed to analyse the effect of AHC on the surgical management of patients with BBS.
When laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is performed successfully, recovery is faster than after open cholecystectomy. However, LC results in higher incidences of biliary, bowel and vascular injury.
Monopolar radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a well accepted modality for local control of hepatic tumours, but its effectiveness is challenged by prolonged ablation time, an inconsistent ablation zone and susceptibility to energy loss from convective heat loss from adjacent high-velocity blood flows ('heat sinks'). Bipolar RFA employs a dual parallel electrode array; the energy wave travels unidirectionally between and not around electrodes. This 'line-of-sight' delivery streams energy between two fixed points and concentrates energy delivery to the area between the probes. Bipolar RFA is postulated to yield reduced ablation time and to reduce or eliminate convective heat loss from adjacent high-velocity blood flows. The current study evaluated the feasibility, time and safety of this novel FDA-approved bipolar RFA technology using a laparoscopic approach in human liver tumours.
The increased frequency of laparoscopic hepatic resection as a principal or adjunct component of patient care has driven the need for and development of efficient and safe hepatic parenchymal transection technologies. At present, various devices are available for pre-coagulation transection (PCT) of hepatic parenchyma with the intent of minimizing procedure-associated postoperative haemorrhage and bile leak. This report presents the evaluation of a novel bipolar radiofrequency (RF) energy device for PCT used for laparoscopic hepatic resection.
The pancreas is a rare location for metastatic disease, with only 2-11% of all pancreatic tumours being of non-primary origin. It is also uncommon for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to metastasize to the pancreas (1-3% of cases) and, when it does, it typically occurs substantially after index nephrectomy. It is not known whether all pancreatic metastases need be resected because today's chemo- and biological therapies are increasingly effective in controlling advanced disease.
Pancreatic anastomotic leak is one of the most serious complications following pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD). Various factors have been implicated as contributors to pancreatic anastomotic leaks, the incidence of which has been as high as 28% in some series.
Aberrant arterial anatomy is a common finding during foregut surgery. Anomalies to the right hepatic lobe are especially relevant during pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) and their recognition serves to protect the blood supply to the liver and bile ducts. We report our experience with aberrant right hepatic arterial anatomy (ARHAA) found during PD.
Extrapancreatic organ dysfunction is the key determinant of mortality in acute pancreatitis (AP). This study aimed to document the frequency and duration of individual organ dysfunction in all fatalities caused by AP in a large, population-based cohort.
This study evaluated the outcomes of patients with complex or persistent thoracobiliary fistulae following penetrating liver trauma, who underwent endoscopic biliary intervention at a tertiary referral centre.
The use of precut sphincterotomy during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) facilitates selective bile duct access in difficult procedures. However, it is also associated with high rates of complications. Several techniques for precut sphincterotomy have been described in the literature. This paper reports our experience with a non-needle-knife technique for precut sphincterotomy, namely, the mucosal bridge technique.
Globalization and intercontinental migration have not just changed the socioeconomic status of regions, but have also altered disease dynamics across the globe. Hepatolithiasis, although still rare, is becoming increasingly evident in the West because of immigration from the Asia-Pacific region, where the disease prevails in endemic proportions. Such rare but emerging diseases pose a therapeutic challenge to doctors.
A pancreatic fistula (PF) is the most common complication after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), and its reported incidence varies from 2% to 28%. The aim of the present study was to analyse the treatment of a complicated PF comparing the surgical approach with conservative techniques.
Post-operative pancreatic fistula (POPF) is one of the most fearful complications which may occur after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD). The methods used to predict POPF pre-operatively have not been studied in great detail. We analyzed correlation between various parameters related to PD including pre-operative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) signal intensity (SI), pathology of pancreatic fibrosis and occurrence rates of POPF, and verified that MRI SI results could be the determining values for pre-operative prediction of POPF.
Pancreatitis is the most common and serious complication to occur after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). It is often associated with additional diagnostic modalities and/or treatment of obstructive jaundice. The aim of this study was to determine the risk of post-ERCP pancreatitis associated with pancreaticobiliary examination and endoscopic biliary drainage (EBD).
This study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the impact of partial portal decompression on renal haemodynamics and renal function in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension.
Despite the increasing use of laparoscopic techniques, the optimal surgical approach for cystic liver disease has not been well defined. This study aims to determine the optimum operative approach for these patients.
There is wide debate among transplant centres regarding the indications for liver transplantation (LT) in malignancy. We report a single-centre experience with simultaneous LT and total pancreatectomy or pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Utilizing laparoscopy for major surgeries such as hepatectomy is a relatively new concept. Initially, benign pathologies dominated indications for resection. Our experience in an Australian setting with primarily malignant diagnoses is described.
Blood loss during hepatic transection remains a significant risk factor for morbidity and mortality associated with liver surgery. Various electrosurgical devices have been engineered to reduce blood loss. The Gyrus open forceps is a bipolar cautery device which has recently been introduced into hepatic surgery.
Liver transplantation and resection surgery involve a period of ischaemia and reperfusion to the liver which initiates an inflammatory cascade resulting in liver and remote organ injury. Bucillamine is a low-molecular-weight thiol antioxidant that is capable of rapidly entering cells.
Regular physical activity is considered a cornerstone for managing type 2 diabetes. However, in Canada, most individuals with type 2 diabetes do not meet national physical activity recommendations. When designing a theory-based intervention, one should first determine the key determinants of physical activity for this population. Unfortunately, there is a lack of information on this aspect among adults with type 2 diabetes. The purpose of this cross-sectional study is to fill this gap using an extended version of Ajzen's Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) as reference.
Over the last two decades, various spatial techniques have been demonstrated using geographical information systems (GIS) to adequately estimate and characterize inequities of minority populations living near environmentally hazardous facilities. However, these methods have produced mixed results. In this study, we use recently developed variations of the "distance based" approach to spatially evaluate and compare demographic and socioeconomic disparities surrounding the worst hazardous waste sites in Florida.
Proximity to parks and physical activity sites has been linked to an increase in active behaviors, and positive impacts on health outcomes such as lower rates of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity. Since populations with a low socio-economic status as well as racial and ethnic minorities tend to experience worse health outcomes in the USA, access to parks and physical activity sites may be an environmental justice issue. Geographic Information systems were used to conduct quantitative and qualitative analyses of park accessibility in New York City, which included kernel density estimation, ordinary least squares (global) regression, geographically weighted (local) regression, and longitudinal case studies, consisting of field work and archival research. Accessibility was measured by both density of park acreage and density of physical activity sites. Independent variables included percent non-Hispanic black, percent Hispanic, percent below poverty, percent of adults without high school diploma, percent with limited English-speaking ability, and population density.
Diarrhea is a major public health problem in Thailand. The Ministry of Public Health, Thailand, has been trying to monitor and control this disease for many years. The methodology and the results from this study could be useful for public health officers to develop a system to monitor and prevent diarrhea outbreaks.
Improving the healthcare for patients with depression is a priority health policy across the world. Roughly, two major problems can be identified in daily practice: (1) the content of care is often not completely consistent with recommendations in guidelines and (2) the organization of care is not always integrated and delivered by multidisciplinary teams.
Finland has since 1972 had a primary health care system based on health centres run and funded by the local public authorities called 'municipalities'. On the world map of primary health care systems, the Finnish solution claims to be the most health centre oriented and also the widest, both in terms of the numbers of staff and also of different professions employed. Offering integrated care through multi-professional health centres has been overshadowed by exceptional difficulties in guaranteeing a reasonable access to the population at times when they need primary medical or dental services. Solutions to the problems of access have been found, but they do not seem durable.
In the Depression Initiative, a promising collaborative care model for depression that was developed in the US was adapted for implementation in the Netherlands.
Integrated health systems are considered a solution to the challenge of maintaining the accessibility and integrity of healthcare in numerous jurisdictions worldwide. However, decision makers in a Canadian health region indicated they were challenged to find evidence-based information to assist with the planning and implementation of integrated healthcare systems.
Advances in laboratory methods capable of detecting recent HIV infection offer the promise of quickly and efficiently measuring HIV incidence in cross-sectional surveys, thereby greatly expanding the capabilities of surveillance programs. We compared HIV-1 incidence estimates derived from 3 different methods: Vironostika-less sensitive, BED capture enzyme immuno assay (BED-CEIA), and repeat testing history.
In developing countries, the study of cytomegalovirus (CMV) coinfection in HIV-infected patients remains neglected. Quantitative CMV polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the gold standard diagnostic tool for analyzing serum CMV replication and for predicting CMV disease. We estimated the prevalence of replicating CMV in sera of newly diagnosed HIV-infected Cambodian patients and examined its impact on mortality.
African Americans constitute 13% of the US population yet account for nearly 50% of new HIV infections. Implementation of efficacious behavioral interventions can help reduce infections in this vulnerable population.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advise repeat HIV testing for partners of HIV-infected persons; injection drug users and their sex partners; individuals with recent multiple partnerships and their sex partners; those involved in sex trade; and men who have sex with men. Additional social and behavioral variables may be useful for identifying priority populations.
HIV-infected women are at increased risk of cervical cytologic abnormalities. HIV treatment guidelines recommend annual Papanicolaou (Pap) tests for HIV-infected women. We assessed screening prevalence and associated factors among HIV-infected women.
There are limited data on the risk of developing HIV drug resistance based on the CD4 cell count at which highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is initiated.
Liver stiffness (LS) measured by transient elastometry is associated with portal pressure in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-monoinfected patients and could predict the presence of esophageal varices in these subjects. The aim of this study was to assess the ability of LS to predict esophageal varices requiring preventive therapy for bleeding in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients.
To assess trends in mortality and cause of death for women with HIV, we studied deaths over a 10-year period among participants in the Women's Interagency HIV Study, a representative US cohort.
Based on prior pathologic and 2-dimensional echocardiographic studies, HCM has been regarded as a disease characterized by substantial LV wall thickening.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is the most common cause of sudden death in young people. Screening advocates have recommended a 12-lead ECG for the early detection of HCM in athletes, yet the clinical outcomes of those presenting with a normal ECG remains to be fully delineated.
Recent data have suggested that obstruction may be present in the majority of HCM patients, irrespective of cardiac symptoms. The prognosis of minimally symptomatic obstructive HCM remains poorly defined.
Myocardial scarring (fibrosis) and SICAD are frequently observed on histopathology in HCM patients. CMR measures wall thickness and detects scar.
Cardiac death in HCM occurs suddenly (SCD) or may be nonsudden (non-SCD). Little data exists on non-SCD in children. Risk factors for SCD in adult HCM are characterized and consensus management strategies detailed. Their application to children is uncertain and treatment strategies vary.
Abnormal aortic stiffness implies an unfavorable prognosis and has been established in a variety of aortic diseases and ischemic cardiomyopathy. However, the relationship between aortic stiffness and HCM has not been studied previously.
EES have been shown to be effective in the context of randomized trials with selected patients. The effect of EES implantation in more complex, unselected patients cannot be directly extrapolated from these findings.
Suture-line hemostasis, reinforcement of friable tissue, and adhesion prevention are key concerns for patients undergoing cardiac surgery for aortic reconstruction. Failure to secure hemostasis at anastomotic junctures and reinforce fragile tissue may lead to increased blood loss, additional blood product requirements, increased operative time, and, in extreme cases, reoperation. Patients with aortic pathology may also be at higher risk for reoperation, and adhesion formation from prior surgery is an added risk at resternotomy. The advent of high-pressure sealants has been of benefit in helping to alleviate these perioperative challenges.
We observed that paclitaxel altered the pharmacokinetic properties of gemcitabine in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and limited the accumulation of gemcitabine and its metabolites in various primary and immortalized human cells. Therefore, we classified the drug-drug interaction and the effects of paclitaxel on deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) and cytidine deaminase (CDA) in three NSCLC cell lines. These enzymes are responsible for the metabolism of gemcitabine to its deaminated metabolite dFdU (80% of the parent drug) and the phosphorylated metabolites dFdCMP, dFdCDP and dFdCTP. These metabolites appear to relate to sensitivity and tolerability of gemcitabine based on previous animal and laboratory studies.
Gadolinium-ethoxybenzyl-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-EOB-DTPA) is an MRI contrast agent with perfusion and hepatoselective properties. The purpose of the study was to examine uptake of Gd-EOB-DTPA in the hepatobiliary phase in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Serological identification of antigens by recombinant cDNA expression cloning (SEREX) is an established method for detecting new tumor-specific antigens. Antibodies to SEREX antigens may be useful for the detection of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC).
The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between precore (PC)/basal core promoter (BCP) mutations and the viral loads or activity of hepatitis in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection.
Combined multi-channel intra-luminal impedance and pH (Mll-pH) monitoring can detect gastro-esophageal reflux and identify acid and non-acid reflux (NAR) events. It can be used for patients with persistent symptoms who are having proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy. The aim of this study is to determine the frequency of acid reflux and NAR and to establish their relationship with persistent reflux symptoms in Japanese patients with non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) who are on a double-dose of PPI therapy.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (PTGS2) overexpression has been implicated in various cancers. We aimed to evaluate the role of PTGS2 -1195G&gt;A [reference sequence (rs) 689466], -765G&gt;C (rs20417) and +8473T&gt;C (rs5275) polymorphisms in conferring interindividual susceptibility to gallbladder cancer.
Recently, a novel Helicobacter pylori stool antigen test (Testmate pylori antigen EIA) using monoclonal antibodies against H. pylori catalase has been developed commercially. This study assessed the diagnostic usefulness of the stool antigen test compared with a polyclonal enzyme immunoassay (HpSA test) after H. pylori eradication.
We conducted a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the clinical efficacy of an intravenous fluoroquinolone, ciprofloxacin (CIP), in patients with biliary tract infection requiring biliary drainage using imipenem/cilastatin (IPM/CS) as a control.
The peptidyl-proline isomerase, Protein Never in Mitosis Gene A Interacting-1 (PIN1), regulates turnover of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in murine aortic endothelial cells (MAEC) stimulated with E. coli endotoxin (LPS) and interferon-gamma (IFN). Degradation of iNOS was reduced by a calpain inhibitor, suggesting that PIN1 may affect induction of other calpain-sensitive inflammatory proteins, such as cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, in MAEC.
As highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) becomes increasingly available to African children, it is important to evaluate simple and feasible methods of improving adherence in order to maximize benefits of therapy.
While manually-assisted body-weight supported treadmill training (BWSTT) has revealed improved locomotor function in persons with post-stroke hemiparesis, outcomes are inconsistent and it is very labor intensive. Thus an alternate treatment approach is desirable. Objectives of this pilot study were to: 1) compare the efficacy of body-weight supported treadmill training (BWSTT) combined with the Lokomat robotic gait orthosis versus manually-assisted BWSTT for locomotor training post-stroke, and 2) assess effects of fast versus slow treadmill training speed.
Despite growing recognition of attenuation correction (AC) utilizing an external radiation source, prognostic studies using AC are lacking.
[Tc-99m-N(mpo)(PNP5)](+) (Tc-99m-N-MPO: Hmpo = 2-mercaptopyridine N-oxide and PNP5 = N-ethoxyethyl-N,N-bis[2-(bis(3-methoxypropyl)phosphino)ethyl]amine) is a new Tc-99m radiotracer useful for myocardial perfusion imaging. The main objective of this study is to elucidate the mechanism for myocardial localization and fast liver clearance of Tc-99m-N-MPO in comparison with Tc-99m-sestamibi ([Tc-99m-(MIBI)(6)](+): MIBI = 2-methoxy-2-methylpropylisonitrile).
The optimal stress imaging modality for patients with ESRD has not yet been determined.
The impact of myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) on prediction of risk for future cardiac events was examined by comparing predictions based on clinical information alone and in combination with MPI findings.
The American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Society of Nuclear Cardiology appropriateness criteria document assigns single photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion imaging (SPECT MPI) a rating of uncertain for detection and risk assessment of coronary artery disease (CAD) in asymptomatic patients at moderate risk.
Recent evidence suggests that combining supine and prone acquisitions during stress-gated SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPS) improves detection of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD), though the additional imaging time required may not be feasible in routine clinical practice. MPS with prone-only acquisitions is occasionally performed in many laboratories, though little is known about the ability of modern MPS with prone-only acquisitions to detect obstructive CAD. Our goal was to assess the ability of MPS with prone-only acquisitions to detect obstructive CAD as determined by coronary angiography.
The purpose of the present study was to assess the accuracy of rates of myocardial fatty acid esterification (MFAE) obtained using positron emission tomography (PET).
Left ventricular (LV) remodeling after myocardial infarction (MI) occurs frequently despite successful percutaneaous coronary intervention (PCI) but cannot be predicted by simple clinical parameters.
To evaluate the diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of myocardial perfusion in the assessment of flow-limiting epicardial stenosis in a head-to-head comparison with abnormal thallium-201 ((201)TI) single photon emission tomography (SPECT) studies in patients with predominantly known coronary artery disease (CAD).
In cardiac SPECT perfusion imaging, motion correction of the data is critical to the minimization of motion introduced artifacts in the reconstructed images. Software-based (data-driven) motion correction techniques are the most convenient and economical approaches to fulfill this purpose. However, the accuracy is significantly affected by how the data complexities, such as activity overlap, non-uniform tissue attenuation, and noise are handled.
A 17-segment model has become the standard for interpreting myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Methods for converting pre-existing databases from 12-segment models to the 17-segment model are needed for ongoing prognostic studies.
Stress myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) and stress echocardiography (Echo) are commonly used for the noninvasive evaluation of patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Very few studies have compared the referral patterns to these imaging modalities in terms of the clinical profile of patients, reasons for referral, and type of referring physicians.
With high patient acuity, constant system changes, and multiple changing members of the healthcare team, expert nurses are increasingly important to ensure positive patient outcomes in acute care settings.
Increasing nursing time in patient care is beneficial in improving patient outcomes, but this is proving increasingly difficult with the nursing shortage, budgetary constraints, and higher patient acuity.
Despite the nursing shortage, evidence-based workplace approaches addressing nurse stress have not been well studied.
Nurses must synthesize large amounts of information and think through complex and often emergent clinical situations when making critical decisions about patient care, including delegation.
Exercise during postnatal development plays a key role in determining adult bone mass and reducing the risk of fracture and osteoporosis later in life. However, the relationship between mechanically-induced osteogenesis and age is unclear. Elevated levels of estrogen during puberty may inhibit periosteal bone formation. Thus, magnitudes of mechanically-induced osteogenesis may be vary with pubertal state.
Diabetes is well known risk factor for thrombotic events. The association between diabetes and venous thromboembolism is still matter of debate. However, during diabetes an acquired thrombophilia is present and is due to the non-enzymatic glycosilation of clotting inhibitors as antithrombin thus leading to hypercoagulable state. A possibile relationship between the presence of FVL gene variant in type 1 or type 2 diabetes has been hypothysed by several reports in the Literature with non-univocal findings.
Multiple factors are contributing to overcrowded emergency departments and decreased patient access to emergency surgical care in the United States.
Chest wall implosion injuries secondary to side impact are unusual but devastating injuries. The purpose of this series is to describe the clinical entity, present a surgical technique to reduce and repair the thoracic cage deformity without thoracotomy, and report outcomes in nine patients.
Traumatic injury may result in an exaggerated response to subsequent immune stimuli such as nosocomial infection. This "second hit" phenomenon and molecular mechanism(s) of immune priming by traumatic lung injury, specifically, pulmonary contusion, remain unknown. We used an animal model of pulmonary contusion to determine whether the injury resulted in priming of the innate immune response and to test the hypothesis that resuscitation fluids could attenuate the primed response to a second hit.
There is a growing concern that computed tomography (CT) is being unnecessarily overused for the evaluation of pediatric patients. The purpose of this study was to analyze the trends and utility of chest CT use compared with chest X-ray (CXR) for the evaluation of children with blunt chest trauma.
Blood transfusion is a common event in the treatment of injured patients. The effect of red blood cell transfusion on tissue oxygenation is unclear. The transfusion of older blood has been shown to be detrimental in retrospective studies. This study aims to study the effect of the age of the blood transfused on the tissue oxygenation using near infrared spectroscopy.
Although hemostatic resuscitation with a 1:1 ratio of fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) to packed red blood cells (PRBC) after severe hemorrhage has been shown to improve survival, its benefit in patients with traumatic-induced coagulopathy (TIC) after &gt;10 units of PRBC during operation has not been elucidated. We hypothesized that a survival benefit would occur when early hemostatic resuscitation was used intraoperatively after injury in patients with TIC.
The trunk of a car occupant can be injured by a frontal or lateral impact. Lesions can be either intrusion injuries or due to the effects of deceleration alone. The aim of this study conducted with human cadavers was to explore the effects of deceleration on the liver during frontal or lateral deceleration.
Etomidate is an induction agent used for the rapid sequence intubation (RSI) of trauma patients because of its favorable hemodynamic profile and rapid onset. However, recent studies have shown etomidate to decrease circulating cortisol concentrations, potentially influencing inflammation. We hypothesized that etomidate may alter the occurrence of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in injury victims.
This study determined individual organ blood flows and global hemodynamic, oxygen delivery and consumption parameters after normovolemic exchange transfusions with the hemoglobin based oxygen carrier (HBOC)-201 in a lightly anesthetized swine model.
Endotracheal intubation in patients with potential cervical injury is a common dilemma in trauma. Although direct laryngoscopy (DL) with manual in-line stabilization (MILS) is a standard technique there is little data on the effect of MILS on cervical motion. Likewise there is little data available regarding alternative airway techniques in this setting. This study compared intubations with and without MILS in a cadaver model of cervical instability. We also used this model to compare intubations using DL with a Macintosh blade versus a Bullard laryngoscope (BL).
Predictive factors for mortality are different among countries; knowledge of risk factors is important for planning strategies to reduce mortality in trauma. The objective of this study was to identify predictors of death in traumatic cervical spinal cord injury (TSCI) in Brazil.
The Occupational Therapy Head Injury Mini Screen (OT HIMS) is a screening tool for patients admitted with traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the acute care setting. It is a combination of the Galveston Orientation and Amnesia Test (GOAT) and the Cognistat (formally the Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination). Its purpose is to identify cognitive deficits in patients and to provide education for patients on the impact of these deficits on daily living. Our hypothesis for this study was that cognitive functionality outcome varies with severity of head injury (manifested by Glasgow Coma Scale [GCS]) at admission and tests that identify cognitive deficits can be reserved for patients admitted with severe head injury.
Many factors may predict mortality and disability after traumatic brain injury (TBI), including age and injury severity. However, the role of race\ethnicity has typically been studied tangentially or in homogeneous settings. We investigated whether race\ethnicity was associated with medical outcomes at a single, diverse center.
In a previous retrospective study, we developed a predictive model of survival in isolated head injuries based on easily available parameters such as age, mechanism of injury, Glasgow Coma Scale, and head Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS). The purpose of the present study is to prospectively evaluate this predictive model.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of incapacity and mortality worldwide, with most of the burden occurring in low-income and middle-income countries. A number of clinical, demographic, and neurosurgical variables of patients with TBI were associated with their outcome.
Our goal was to define risk factors for ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) relapse and examine the implications, if any, for initial therapy in trauma patients.
Transfusion has been demonstrated to be associated with pneumonia in injured patients, and blood of older storage age may potentiate this morbidity. It remains unclear, however, whether this association is causal, as prior studies have not accounted for prepneumonia versus postpneumonia transfusion. We sought to evaluate the temporal relationship between transfusion and pneumonia and the influence of blood age on this relationship.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a growing cause of infections among hospitalized trauma patients. We examined the incidence and infectious consequences of MRSA among trauma patients admitted to our Level I Trauma Center during 24 months.
Obesity is an independent predictor of increased morbidity and mortality in critically injured trauma patients. We hypothesized that obese patients in need of damage control laparotomy (DCL) will encounter an increase incidence of postsurgical complications with a concomitant increase mortality when compared with a cohort of nonobese patients.
Hemorrhagic shock has been reported to elevate the concentration of ammonia in the blood of animals. However, only one clinical study, of a few surgical patients, found a similar effect. This investigation sought to determine whether ammonia is elevated in the plasma of trauma patients with hemorrhage and whether it could be used to predict serious hemorrhage.
Increased production of red blood cells (RBCs) should be reflected by increased reticulocyte counts (RC). With the introduction of modern fully automated measurements of RC, the recovery of hemoglobin (Hb) after blood loss might be assessed earlier. We investigated the temporal relation of Hb and RC in trauma patients.
The aim of this study was to diagnose hyperfibrinolysis (HF) and its pattern using thrombelastometry and to correlate the diagnosis with mortality. Furthermore, routine laboratory based and the rotational thrombelastometry analyzer (ROTEM)-derived variables were also correlated with survival.
Rhabdomyolysis is one of the causes of acute renal failure. Pentobarbital enhances the action of gamma-aminobutyric acid and suppresses the activities of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB pathways. In this study, we used pentobarbital to study the effects on the glycerol-induced rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure in conscious rats.
A mole gun is a handmade weapon used as a trap to kill moles by farmers. Their action is based on a simple hammer mechanism: when the moles put their head through the metal ring to get hold of the food, they trigger the mechanism. The hammer strikes the primer, which ignites the gunpowder, propelling the pellets from the barrel. The purpose of this study was to report our experiences in a group of patients who accidentally suffered injuries by mole guns to the hand.
Excellent long-term results have been reported for nonoperative treatment of stable isolated displaced partial articular (Mason 2) fractures of the radial head, suggesting that the role of operative treatment can be questioned. This investigation reports the long-term outcome of operatively treated Mason 2 radial head fractures.
The aim of this study was to find characteristics in head-neck-facial (HNF) injuries among victims of violence and to test the hypothesis that the type of injury, location, and mechanism behind it vary between the genders.
Diagnosis of penetrating pharyngeal and esophageal injuries are difficult when the patient has severe facial injuries, is obese or intubated, and hemodynamically unstable. Radiologic aids may be either unsuitable or unreliable. Videoendoscopy, preferably by the trauma surgeon, affords direct visualization at the bedside and is timely and expeditious.
The purpose of this study was to determine the long-term outcome of conservatively managed acetabular fractures involving the weight-bearing dome, which otherwise deserves an operative treatment.
Interactions between American and Dutch surgeons suggested differences in prescription habits for pain medication after fracture treatment.
The role of vascularized periosteum flap as a graft and the factors stimulating it into osteogenic activity remain obscure. Few articles recognized its osteogenic process without the dependence of stress stimulation or bony contact.
Injury patterns and interpretation of injuries in homicidal deaths are important components of medicolegal autopsies. The objective of this article is to describe the incidence of female homicides and their related injury patterns with reference to autopsy practices in South Africa.
Because of the 80-hour work week, extensive service cross-coverage creates great potential for patient care errors. These patient care emergencies are increasingly managed using a rapid response team (RRT) to reduce patient morbidity. We examine the proximate causes of a surgical RRT activation. We hypothesize that most RRTs would occur during cross-coverage hours and be preventable or potentially preventable.
Rural citizens die more frequently because of trauma than their urban counterparts. Skill maintenance is a potential issue among rural surgeons because of infrequent exposure to severely injured patients. The primary goal was to evaluate the outcomes of multiple injuries patients who required a laparotomy after referral from level III trauma centers.
The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program is becoming a core methodology to define performance as a ratio of observed to expected events. We hypothesized that application of this using International Classification of Injury Severity Score (ICISS) for individual patient risk stratification to a group of hospitals contributing data to the National Pediatric Trauma Registry (NPTR) would apply objective evidence of actual injuries to define an expected standard and identify performance outliers.
After an unsuccessful American College of Surgery Committee on Trauma visit, our level I trauma center initiated an improvement program that included (1) hiring new personnel (trauma director and surgeons, nurse coordinator, orthopedic trauma surgeon, and registry staff), (2) correcting deficiencies in trauma quality assurance and process improvement programs, and (3) development of an outreach program. Subsequently, our trauma center had two successful verifications. We examined the longitudinal effects of these efforts on volume, patient outcomes and finances.
To efficiently capture evaluation and management (E&amp;M) and procedural billing in our surgical intensive care unit (SICU), we have developed an electronic billing system that links to the electronic medical record (EMR). In this system, only notes electronically signed and coded by an attending generate billing charges. We hypothesized that capture of missed billing during nighttime and weekends might be sufficient to subsidize 24/7 in-house attending coverage.
Although the lethal triad of hypothermia, acidosis, and coagulopathy has been recognized for a decade, the underlying mechanisms related to the development of coagulopathy are not fully understood. Consequently, current strategy in treating trauma patients with coagulopathy is limited to "staying out of the trouble" instead of "getting out of trouble." A better understanding of the underlying mechanisms will facilitate the search for effective therapeutic approaches when this lethal triad cannot be avoided.
Falls remain a major cause of childhood morbidity and mortality. To improve effectiveness of our prevention program, we used our electronic injury surveillance database to analyze patient variables and the incidence of fall-related brain injury.
Community-built playgrounds have been an integral component of Injury Free Coalition for Kids sites as they work with communities to provide safe places for children to play. The purpose of this pilot survey was to explore the potential impact of the community-built playground on the community.
Although most states have infant restraint laws, booster seat legislation for older children has not been implemented universally despite evidence of effectiveness. We examined injury and expenditures for motor vehicle traffic (MV) occupant injury among 3 year to 8 year olds covered versus uncovered by booster seat legislation.
Most injuries to infants occur at home and are known to have a modifiable component. Additional information on safety behaviors, practices, and device ownership could inform prevention programs aimed at reducing injury-related race and ethnic disparities.
Interventions that combine educational programs and discounted child safety seats have been demonstrated to improve parental child passenger safety knowledge and practices. An educational component consisting of an hour-long bilingual (English/Spanish) class for parents was added to a hospital-based safety seat program. Researchers sought to evaluate participant knowledge retention and safety practices after the class and to identify parental motivators and barriers for correct safety seat use. In particular, researchers were interested in evaluating a child passenger safety program that includes both individualized and group-based educational components in addition to a giveaway seat program, and also serves a subset of Latinos, mostly from the Dominican Republic and the Guatemala, that is less frequently studied.
The "seat belt sign" (SBS) has been reported to be highly associated with intra-abdominal injury. This study defines its predictive value in identifying injuries in a large pediatric trauma population.
Injury is the leading cause of death for children and has been linked to caregiver drinking. Screening and brief intervention for risky drinking has been successful in adult trauma centers but has not been evaluated in caregivers of pediatric trauma patients. The purpose of this study was to investigate a pilot screening process for risky drinking caregivers, to determine rates of risky alcohol use, and to assess potential relationships between risky drinking and child safety behaviors.
To assess the relation between strength of graduated driver licensing (GDL) laws and motor vehicle (MV) injury burden, this study examined injury mortality, hospitalizations and related charges for 15 year to 17 year olds in 36 states by strength of GDL legislation.
As part of a statewide campaign, we surveyed physician attitudes and practice regarding teen driving safety before and after a brief intervention designed to facilitate in office counseling.
Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death and disability to teenagers in the United States. The development of resources to assist physicians and high school teachers in anticipatory guidance of adolescent drivers and their parents provides a way to disseminate important information. As adults with years of experience working with teens in a variety of settings, we hypothesized we would have similar responses to a standardized message as teenagers themselves.
Teen driving issues result in higher rates of injury. The Arizona Department of Health Services recommended addressing teen seat belt use. Driver belt use has been reported as lowest among those transporting passengers of similar age. Self-management is essential for long-term behavioral change. Peer-to-peer approaches have been shown to be effective. A group of trauma center representatives in Arizona replicated the Battle of the Belt program that began in 2005 in Missouri to address teen seat belt use using a peer-to-peer approach.
Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among teenagers. In 2007, 48 youth between the ages of 15 years and 19 years died in traffic crashes and almost 4,780 were injured in Minnesota. Of those killed, only 42.8% of teens were wearing their seat belt. The Drive Smart Challenge is a 4-week peer lead safety campaign with the goal to increase safe driving habits for high school age students.
The prevalence of prostatitis is extremely high, with vast majority belongs to National Institutes of Health Category III: Chronic Prostatitis (CP)/Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndromes (CPPS). The etiology of CP/CPPS is noninfectious, with no precise mechanisms has been elucidated to date.
Large cohort studies have revealed that frequent ejaculation is associated with higher risk of prostatitis, especially in young men. Also, clear evidences from sports medical research has shown that intense muscular contraction will lead to locally increased production of free radicals and lactic acid. Therefore, the pelvic muscles during ejaculation would induce substantial increase of these byproducts, which if not cleared effectively, could trigger series of local cellular/tissue damages resulting in inflammation, muscular fatigue and dysfunction. If our hypothesis were validated, it could be suggested that at least in some patients, the treatment of CP/CPPS could be tuned as dealing with post-sports recovery, such as hot bath to promote local blood circulation and free radical scavenger drugs such as vitamin C and E to neutralize free radicals.
four hospitals comprising a health network in Melbourne, Australia, implemented a range of initiatives aimed at enhancing women's experiences of postnatal maternity care.
Malignant middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarction is a devastating disease affecting a minority of stroke victims. The mortality rate from malignant MCA infarction managed with conservative medical treatment is estimated at 80%. Standard medical management includes physiologic support, osmotherapy, intubation and mechanical ventilation, and intracranial pressure monitoring. Decompressive hemicraniectomy has been viewed with skepticism because of lack of evidence from randomized controlled trials.
Hemineglect is a difficult neurologic condition to rehabilitate. It arises predominantly from right brain injury, and manifests heterogeneously in clinical deficits such as poor visual exploration to the left, inaccurate assessment of the midpoint of a line, left limb hypokinesis, and anosognosia. Most of the cognitive dysfunction produced by hemineglect is because of an asymmetric distribution of attention, either with respect to extrapersonal space or to an object being viewed. Many treatments draw on hemineglect theory to attempt to mediate the basic asymmetry of attention.
Patients with acute brain injury from various etiologies commonly develop increased intracranial pressure. Acute intracranial hypertension resulting from elevation of intracranial pressure is a medical emergency requiring prompt diagnosis and management. Appropriate and timely management strategies result in better patient outcome in an otherwise severely debilitating or fatal disease process.
Memory impairment caused by bilateral hippocampal primitive brain tumor is rarely reported. Clinical and MRI features can mimic paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis (PLE), and the differential diagnosis between these 2 entities may be difficult.
Primary headaches are known to be associated with multiple sclerosis. We aimed to determine headaches using ICHD-II in different phases of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, and the correlation between headaches and several features of the disease.
Digital neuropathy is a pure sensory neuropathy of a digital nerve. It may be caused by acute or chronic local trauma or pressure, or accompany systemic illnesses such as rheumatoid disease, leprosy, Raynaud disease, dysproteinemia, or diabetes mellitus. We describe an extraordinary case of digital neuropathy of the median and ulnar nerves caused by Dupuytren contracture.
Juvenile muscular atrophy of the distal upper extremity (Hirayama disease) is a sporadic disorder, but very rarely occurs in a familial pattern.
Stiff person syndrome is characterized by rigidity of axial and proximal limb muscles, associated with muscle spasms, triggered by unexpected acoustic or somesthetic stimuli. It usually has an autoimmune basis, in which the blood contains antiglutamate decarboxylase antibodies, and is associated with different types of autoimmune diseases. The electromyogram provides evidences of continuous muscular activity.
Impairment of multiple neurotransmitter networks, including acetylcholine, may contribute to the cognitive impairment in patients with Parkinson disease with dementia (PDD). Therefore, cholinesterase inhibitors might improve cognitive function in PDD. On the other hand, enhancing cholinergic function could plausibly worsen features of parkinsonism.
For cachectic patients with chronic respiratory disease (CRD), conventional enteral nutrition formula is an optional treatment to maintain energy balance. The molecular mechanisms by which enteral nutrition formula controls appetite and weight remain unknown. We examined whether enteral nutrition formula rich in octanoic acids would increase plasma levels of ghrelin, an appetite-stimulating hormone produced in the stomach, in cachectic patients with CRD.
Parents who perceive common infant behaviors as formula intolerance-related often switch formulas without consulting a health professional. Up to one-half of formula-fed infants experience a formula change during the first six months of life.
clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00666120.
Testicular intraepithelial neoplasia (TIN, also called carcinoma in situ of the testis), the precursor of testicular germ cell tumors, will progress to invasive cancer unless appropriate treatment is instituted. Orchiectomy and local radiotherapy have been shown to eradicate TIN safely. The efficacy of chemotherapy is equivocal to date.
No data have previously been available regarding the current treatment of patients with pancreatic cancer (PC) in German hospitals and medical practices.
A phase I study was initiated to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of prolonged-infusion gemcitabine combined with cyclophosphamide in patients with metastatic breast carcinoma (MBC).
Limited data is available about the effects of hemodialysis sessions, coronary artery disease (CAD), and diabetes on serum cardiac troponin T (cTnT) levels in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
Adenovirus causes ophthalmological nosocomial infections. Although cidofovir may be used systemically for immunocompromised patients in disseminated adenoviral infections, no specific anti-adenoviral agent has been established for the treatment of adenoviral ocular infection. It has been reported that cidofovir may cause lacrimal duct obstruction when used locally. We have reported that zalcitabine and stavudine showed anti-adenoviral activity in vitro. We now evaluate the side effects of these agents in eyes and ocular adnexa in an animal model.
Evaluation of the protein osteopontin (OPN) as a potential new marker in comparison to melanoma inhibitory activity (MIA) for screening and detection of metastatic uveal melanoma.
In Behet's disease posterior segment involvement is very frequent (about 80%). Macular edema is the most commonly observed complication and is related to reduction of visual acuity. The purpose of the study was to evaluate choroidal involvement during posterior vasculitis due to Behet's disease.
To determine the effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT) in chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) and to describe fundus autofluorescence (AF) patterns before and after PDT.
To report 2 cases of large subretinal haemorrhage in 2 patients with age-related macular degeneration when the intravitreal injections were changed from bevacizumab (Avastin) to ranibizumab (Lucentis).
In a retrospective study, we compared the results of different surgical therapies in 30 patients who had an early-onset infection after implantation of a hip hemiarthroplasty.
Acquired patella baja is a possible cause of painful total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and a poor functional outcome. Standardized lateral radiographs - often missing in the daily routine - are required for evaluating the patella height. It is unknown which patella index is insensitive to the radiological setting so that it can be used efficiently in the clinical routine.
We evaluated the efficacy and safety of kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty using the data presented in recently published papers with respect to pain relief, function, complication rate, and incidence of new vertebral fractures.
Regional cortical thinning at the femoral neck is associated with hip fragility. Here, we investigated whether exercises involving high-magnitude impacts, moderate-magnitude impacts from odd directions, high-magnitude muscle forces, low-magnitude impacts at high repetition rate, or non-impact muscle forces at high repetition rate were associated with thicker femoral neck cortex.
It is recommended that intervention thresholds should be based on an assessment of absolute fracture risk. Probability of hip fracture is calculated from the incidence of hip fracture in a given population and the incidence of death. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence and the absolute risk of hip fracture for men and women in Poland.
Poor persistence is widespread with oral osteoporosis (OP) therapy. The objective of this study was to evaluate the persistence among OP patients started on weekly oral bisphosphonates (BP).
This study determines the prevalence of vertebral deformities in elderly women with clinical risk factors for osteoporosis but with BMD values above the threshold for osteoporosis (T-score &gt;or= -2.5).
The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of fat and lean mass on both arterial stiffness and bone mass density (BMD) in elderly men.
Although clinical trials confirm the anti-fracture efficacy of bisphosphonates over 3-5 years, the long-term effects of bisphosphonate use on bone metabolism are unknown. Femoral insufficiency fractures in patients on prolonged treatment have been reported.
Osteoporosis is often treated with bisphosphonates, which reduce fracture risk. Effects of bisphosphonates on fatigue strength, which may be clinically relevant for vertebral fractures, are unknown. We determined vertebral, compressive fatigue properties in normal and zoledronic acid (ZOL)-treated, OVX rats.
Peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) provides measurements of bone mineral content (BMC), density (BMD) and bone geometry. There is a lack of reference data available for the interpretation of pQCT measurements in children and young adults. The aim of this study was to provide reference data at the distal and mid-shaft radius.
The aim of this study was to compare bone mass and structure between adolescents with type 1 diabetes and their healthy peers.
The importance of vitamin D for skeletal health has been implemented in clinical trials in osteoporosis. The threshold of 25-hydroxyvitamin D for inclusion has changed from 30 to 60 nmol/L. This study reports on oral treatment with different doses of vitamin D3 in females with 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 levels &lt; 60 nmol/L.
Strontium ranelate effects on the determinants of bone strength in OVX rats were evaluated.
A study was carried out to determine whether BMD measurement at the distal tibia sites of T-EPI and T-DIA is predictive of clinical fracture risk.
Minodronate increases bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal osteoporotic patients. However, its efficacy in reducing osteoporotic fractures has not been tested.
There is concern that vitamin D supplementation doses are frequently inadequate, and that compliance with daily medication is likely to be suboptimal.
The influence of race/ethnicity on bone measurements has not been widely examined. This study identifies age and amount of bone accumulated at peak density and their correlates by race/ethnicity.
Microdamage accumulation due to fatigue loading may lead to fracture. In addition, several studies using animal models have suggested in recent years that bisphosphonates might increase microdamage accumulation.
The reported association between depression and loss of BMD has been controversial. This meta-analysis was conducted to determine whether depression and BMD are associated and to identify the variation in some subgroups.
Bone modeling and remodeling is the final common pathway expressing all genetic and environmental factors that influence the attainment and maintenance of bone's material and structural strength. Modeling and remodeling require a surface, and during growth this cellular machinery fashions bone's external size, shape, and internal architecture by depositing bone on, and removing bone from, both its periosteal (external) and endosteal (internal) envelopes. Bone is distributed and redistributed to achieve strength commensurate with its loading requirements.
Endosomal small GTPases of the Rab family, among them Rab4a, play an essential role in the control of the glucose transporter GLUT4 trafficking, which is essential for insulin-mediated glucose uptake. We found that adipocytes also expressed Rab4b and we observed a consistent decrease in the expression of Rab4b mRNA in human and mice adipose tissue in obese diabetic states. These results led us to study this poorly characterized Rab member and its potential role in glucose transport.
Lysosomal storage diseases are characterized by intracellular accumulation of metabolites within lysosomes. Recent evidence suggests that lysosomal storage impairs autophagy resulting in accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins and dysfunctional mitochondria, ultimately leading to apoptosis. We studied the relationship between lysosome storage and impairment of different intracellular pathways and organelle function in mucopolysaccharidosis VI, which is characterized by accumulation of dermatan sulfate and signs of visceral and skeletal but not cerebral involvement.
Air quality is not only important for respiratory health but it also influences the homeostasis of the whole human organism. In the past years numerous violations of European Union particulate matter thresholds have been recorded.
Currently, data from questionnaires have demonstrated increasing criticism from respiratory physicians regarding their working situation. They complain about long working hours, income and an increasing amount of time spent on documentation and administrative duties in particular. Since these criticisms are only subjective perceptions they should be compared to data that are more objective. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to collect precise data about physicians' work in respiratory medicine in order to analyse working routines.
Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) is a known but rare disease, caused by human papilloma virus and characterised by multiple exophytic lesions and uncontrolled growth of papilloma in the respiratory tract. The most common complication of RRP is stenosis of the trachea. Medical therapeutic options have so far been less effective. However, inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by bevacizumab does appear to be an effective treatment option for RRP.
The function of automatic CPAP devices is difficult to investigate using clinical examinations due to the high variability of breathing disorders. With a flow generator, however, identical breathing patterns can be reproduced so that comparative studies on the behaviour of pressure of APAP devices are possible. Because the algorithms of APAP devices based on the experience of users can be modified without much effort, also previously investigated devices should regularly be reviewed with regard to programme changes.
Skin prick tests are a common, fast and safe method used for atopy screening and identification of sensitizing allergens. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of the positive skin prick test (SPT) with common inhaled allergens in the general population of Lodz province and to identify the most common allergens.
Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The aim of this study was to assess relations between cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and age in OSA subjects.
Infections are a part of the natural course of lung cancer but few studies have looked at the clinical and microbiological documentation of infections in these patients. The aim of this study is to analyze the profile of potentially pathogenic bacteria that colonize the bronchial tree in patients with primary lung cancer.
Poland is the one of the countries in the European Union with the highest prevalence of smokers. The involvement of family physicians in smoking cessation activity could improve this situation. The aim of this study was to estimate smoking habits, their intensity and nicotine dependence in a family physician's practice (urban and rural population). An additional aim was to estimate smoking habits in relation to the presence of smoking-related disease, gender, location and motivation to stop smoking.
Airway remodeling is a characteristic feature of asthma. It is believed that airway remodeling affects lung function and bronchial hyper-responsiveness. Therefore, the relationship between remodeling and lung function is still a matter of extensive research. However, the results of many studies are inconsistent. The aim of the study was to assess the relationship between lung function parameters and basement membrane (BM) thickness in patients with asthma.
Inhalation of particulates is a leading cause of the development of lung diseases and current understanding of the complex relationship between lung metabolism and airborne particulates is incomplete. It is well established that mechanical load is important in the development of the lung and in lung cell differentiation. The interaction between particle exposure and physical forces on alveolar macrophages is a physiologically relevant issue, but as yet understudied. This study examines the effect of cyclic hydrostatic pressure and cotton particles on synthesis of cytokines by human alveolar macrophages.
To investigate the relationship between soy consumption, COPD risk and the prevalence of respiratory symptoms, a case-control study was conducted in Japan.
The insertion of ventriculoatrial (VA) shunts for the treatment of hydrocephalus is thought to be associated with the development of pulmonary hypertension in adults.
The multidrug resistance gene 1 (MDR1) encodes P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which plays an important role in mediating multidrug resistance to chemotherapeutic agents. MDR1 gene polymorphisms may have an impact on the expression and function of P-gp, thereby influencing the response to chemotherapy.
Asbestos exposure is related to serious adverse health effects. However, there is disagreement about the relationship between chrysotile exposure and mesothelioma or lung cancer.
Induced sputum (IS) is a noninvasive tool, which can be used to collect cellular and soluble materials from lung airways.
Although pulmonary thromboembolism is usually considered as an acute illness, delayed presentations are fairly common.
Although lung cancer is the most common malignancy diagnosed in patients with venous thromboembolism (VTE), data regarding pulmonary embolism (PE) in lung cancer patients are limited.
Adenosine affects the tone and reactivity of airways by activating specific membrane receptors, named A(1), A(2a), A(2b) and A(3). It affects cellular activities either directly by regulating membrane ion exchanges and polarization, or indirectly by modifying neurotransmitter release.
The adenoviral protein E1A has been suggested to play a role in the pathophysiological development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) by inducing expression of inflammatory factors. It is well known that glucocorticoids are important inhibitors of inflammation. In the treatment of COPD corticosteroid therapy commonly has little or no anti-inflammatory effect. We hypothesized that the anti-inflammatory effect of glucocorticoids may be decreased or abolished by E1A expression, which aggravates the airway inflammation and results in the late stage of 'corticosteroid resistance' in COPD development. Corticosteroid therapy is a widely used method to treat respiratory inflammation. However, loss of anti-inflammatory effect is a common and serious complication during the therapy for COPD.
Airway stenting is nowadays an established method for the palliative and/or curative treatment of central airways obstruction. However, complications related to the use of airway stents have been reported.
The forced oscillation technique (FOT) is a promising method for providing a detailed analysis of respiratory mechanics during spontaneous breathing. There is limited data about the use of FOT in patients with sarcoidosis.
There is little information on the differences in polysomnographic findings in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) between elderly and young or middle-aged adults.
Regional incidence trends in regular heroin use are important for assessing the effectiveness of drug policies and for forecasting potential future epidemics.
The 2009 version of the German DRG system brought significant changes for urology concerning coding of diagnoses, medical procedures and the DRG structure. In view of the political situation and considerable economic pressure, a critical analysis of the 2009 German DRG system is warranted. Analysis of relevant diagnoses, medical procedures and G-DRGs in the versions 2008 and 2009 based on the publications of the German DRG-institute (InEK) and the German Institute of Medical Documentation and Information (DIMDI).
Women affected by polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) are known to be at higher risk of cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to identify the artery that first is affected by early pre-atherosclerotic changes in PCOS.
Recombinant Salmonella vaccine vectors may potentially be used to induce specific CD4+ T cell responses against foreign viral antigens. Such immune responses are required features of vaccines against pathogens such as human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). The aim of this study was to investigate the induction of systemic HIV-1-specific CD4+ T helper (Th) responses in mice after oral immunization with a live attenuated Salmonella vaccine vector that expressed HIV-1 subtype C Gag. Groups of BALB/c mice were vaccinated orally three times (4 weeks apart) with this recombinant Salmonella. At sacrifice, 28 days after the last immunization, systemic CD4+ Th1 and Th2 cytokine responses were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunospot assay and cytometric bead array. HIV-1 Gag-specific IgG1 and IgG2a humoral responses in the serum were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
There is a paucity of research on depressive symptoms and their correlates among Black women, which may contribute to underdiagnosis, misdiagnosis, and inappropriate treatment.
Interleukin-18 (IL-18), a proinflammatory cytokine, has been associated with atherogenesis and plaque rupture in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Recent studies suggest that IL-18 may have a long-term prognostic value. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between IL-18 levels and major adverse cardiovascular events within 6 months of follow-up in post-ACS patients.
Changes in the prevalence of pneumococcal occult bacteremia (PnOB) because of pneumococcal conjugated vaccine (PCV-7) may have altered the predictive value of the complete blood count (CBC) for selected patients at risk of having occult bacteremia (OB).
Adenosine plays a key role in different protective and adaptive responses to ischemia and has been suggested to induce ischemic preconditioning.
In several Iranian provinces, there are large numbers of landmines that threaten the lives of many civilians. Ilam is one of the most polluted areas with 1,086 injuries from landmines between 1989 to 1999, with an overall mortality rate of 36.4%. A remarkable number of deaths occurred before the injured were conveyed to the hospital. In this survey, the effects of on trauma outcome of the use of prehospital trauma life support provided by trained paramedics and rural health workers as first responders were examined.
Skin lesions are among the most common complications of contact with sulfur mustard.
Injection drug use (IDU) is considered the major risk factor for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) coinfection. We examined risk factors for HIV/HCV coinfection in a region with a low reported rate of IDU.
Our aim was to compare lansoprazole-tetracycline-metranidazole (LTM) as first-line treatment with the classical lansoprazole-amoxicillin-clarithromycin (LAC) and bismuth-containing quadruple treatments.
From 1960 to 1980, a voucher was required to purchase cigarettes in China. The Chinese government issued vouchers to ration cigarettes, without informing its citizens that smoking was unhealthy. These vouchers were available to all adults, and allowed them to purchase specified numbers of cigarettes. As a result, a number of nonsmokers started smoking during the voucher period.
Although implementation of secondhand smoke policies is increasing, little research has examined the unintended consequences of these policies for disadvantaged women.
To amplify earlier studies of unintended consequences of public policies, this article illustrates both negative and positive unanticipated consequences of smoke-free workplace policies in California bars for women of low SES.
California has significantly decreased racial/ethnic and educational disparities in smoke-free home and indoor work policies. California's ethnic-specific surveys present an opportunity to disaggregate data and examine the impact of California's smoke-free social norm campaign for Asian-American women.
Secondhand smoke poses risks to children, particularly those from low socioeconomic backgrounds. Recently, there has been an increase in tobacco-control policies designed to reduce children's exposure to secondhand smoke, including interventions to change parental smoking behaviors. However, little attention has been paid to understanding potential unintended consequences of such initiatives on mothers who smoke. As such, the objectives of this paper are to explore the potential consequences of tobacco-control policies designed to reduce children's exposure to secondhand smoke on socially disadvantaged mothers who smoke and to provide recommendations for research, policy, and practice.
Smoke-free policies in public places have become more common in China. Little is known, however, about the potential unintended consequences of such policies on pregnant women.
The prevalence of missed work breaks by smoking status in healthcare settings is unknown. The work routines of nurses (Registered Nurses [RNs] and Licensed Practical Nurses [LPNs]), who smoke at higher rates than other health professionals, may be influenced by smokers who use breaks to avoid nicotine withdrawal. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between nurses' smoking status and work breaks and to explore the relationships among personal, professional, and workplace variables associated with missed work breaks.
Obesity has long been considered a risk factor for poor outcomes from a variety of surgical procedures, yet recent studies of critically and chronically ill patients suggest that overweight and obese patients may paradoxically have better outcomes than "normal" weight patients.
The Milan criteria have been adopted by United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) to preoperatively assess outcome in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who receive orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). These criteria rely solely on radiographic appearances of the tumor, providing no measure of tumor biology. Recurrence rates, therefore, remain around 20% for patients within the criteria. The neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is an indicator of inflammatory status previously established as a prognostic indicator in colorectal liver metastases. We aimed to determine whether NLR predicts outcome in patients undergoing OLT for HCC.
We have previously identified safe and effective parameters for use of SLSRFA in a porcine model.
The role of early endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in acute biliary pancreatitis (ABP) remains controversial. Previous studies have included only a relatively small number of patients with predicted severe ABP. We investigated the clinical effects of early ERCP in these patients.
Sepsis is a devastating syndrome and is the leading cause of death among critically ill surgical patients in the United States. Despite decades of research and numerous clinical trials, little progress has been made in the development of new treatments and mortality rates are much the same as they have been for the last 20 to 30 years. As such, sepsis remains a formidable adversary for surgeons and their patients and new therapeutic modalities must continue to be explored.
We have developed a liver perfusion device that maintains physiological temperature with provision of oxygen and nutrition. Reperfusion experiments suggested that this allows recovery of ischemic damage.
Avoidance of perioperative hypothermia has recently become a focus of attention as an important quality performance measure, aimed at optimizing the care of surgical patients. Anesthetized surgical patients are particularly at risk for hypothermia, which has been directly linked to the development of sequelae, such as coagulopathy, infection, morbid myocardial events, and death after surgery. However, many of the underlying immunologic mechanisms remain unclear.
Sepsis and septic shock are a serious problem, particularly in the geriatric population. Ghrelin is an endogenous ligand for the GH secretagogue receptor 1a (GHSR1a, ie, ghrelin receptor). The decline in GH with age is directly associated with many adverse changes that occur with aging. However, the role of GH, ghrelin, and GHSR1a in the age-associated vulnerability to sepsis remains unknown.
Liver failure is a major cause of mortality after hepatectomy. Preoperative prediction of residual liver function has been limited so far.
PLD represents a challenging clinical problem that can result in massive hepatomegaly and various complications, leading to significant decline in health status and quality of life. The optimal surgical treatment for this disease is still evolving.
The goal of LLR is to extend the benefits of the laparoscopic approach without compromising the fundamental principles of open liver surgery. LLR, however, presents unique technical challenges and its evaluation is made difficult by the restricted indications for this approach, the few centers world-wide experienced in the technique, and the heterogeneity of procedures and pathologies involved.
Because of the high incidence of local recurrence and liver metastasis, long-term outcomes for patients after resection of T3-pancreatic cancer are extremely poor.
Curative resection is the only potential cure for patients with pancreatic cancer, but some patients present with advanced tumors that are not resectable by a standard pancreatic resection. Data on risk and survival analysis of extended pancreatic resections is limited.
The impact of residual microscopic disease after pancreaticoduodenectomy is currently a point of controversy. It is, however, generally believed that microscopically positive margins negatively impact survival and this may be improved by ultimately achieving negative margins.
In response to the American Surgical Association Blue Ribbon Committee report on surgical education (2004), the American Board of Colon and Rectal Surgery, working with the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and American Board of Surgery, established a committee (2006) to review residency training curricula and study new pathways to certification as a CR surgeon. To address concerns related to shortened general surgery residency, the American Board of Colon and Rectal Surgery committee surveyed recent, current, and entering CR residents on the timing and factors associated with their career choice and opinions regarding restructuring.
Laparoscopic resection of rectal cancer is technically feasible, but there are no data to evaluate the long-term outcome between laparoscopic and open approach. Moreover, the long-term impact of conversion is not known.
Appendicitis is a common problem that is typically treated with an appendectomy. Following abdominal surgery, adhesions may form and may cause a subsequent small bowel obstruction (SBO). The purpose of our study was to determine the rate of post-appendectomy SBO in an adult population, and to observe any difference in SBO rates between open versus laparoscopic appendectomies.
Better survival rates have been reported from countries with higher incidence of gastric cancer.
The open mesh technique of choice, inguinal hernia repair, remains controversial. Some randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been published assessing its effectiveness; however, available data regarding the outcomes were noncoincident. Therefore, it is necessary to carry out a meta-analysis of the evidence on outcomes for the open mesh technique.
Open abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is associated with a significant morbidity (primarily respiratory and cardiac complications) and an overall mortality rate of 4% to 10%. We tested the hypothesis that perioperative fluid restriction would reduce complications and improve outcome after elective open AAA repair.
National AMP guidelines should be supported by evidence from large contemporary data sets.
Evolutionary relationships among the 11 extant orders of insects that undergo complete metamorphosis, called Holometabola, remain either unresolved or contentious, but are extremely important as a context for accurate comparative biology of insect model organisms. The most phylogenetically enigmatic holometabolan insects are Strepsiptera or twisted wing parasites, whose evolutionary relationship to any other insect order is unconfirmed. They have been controversially proposed as the closest relatives of the flies, based on rDNA, and a possible homeotic transformation in the common ancestor of both groups that would make the reduced forewings of Strepsiptera homologous to the reduced hindwings of Diptera. Here we present evidence from nucleotide sequences of six single-copy nuclear protein coding genes used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships and estimate evolutionary divergence times for all holometabolan orders.
Bcl-2/adenovirus E1B 19 kDa-interacting protein 3 (BNIP3) is a pro-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family induced under hypoxia. Low or absent expression has recently been described in human tumors, including gastrointestinal tumors, resulting in poor prognosis. Little is known about BNIP3 expression in invasive breast cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression of BNIP3 in invasive breast cancer at the mRNA and protein level in correlation with the hypoxic response and clinicopathological features.
The sub-membranous skeleton of the ciliate Paramecium, the epiplasm, is composed of hundreds of epiplasmic scales centered on basal bodies, and presents a complex set of proteins, epiplasmins, which belong to a multigenic family. The repeated duplications observed in the P. tetraurelia genome present an interesting model of the organization and evolution of a multigenic family within a single cell.
Linkage disequilibrium (LD) mapping is commonly used to evaluate markers for genome-wide association studies. Most types of LD software focus strictly on LD analysis and visualization, but lack supporting services for genotyping.
The G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily represents the largest protein family in the human genome. These proteins have a variety of physiological functions that give them well recognized roles in clinical medicine. In Xenopus tropicalis, a widely used animal model for physiology research, the repertoire of GPCRs may help link the GPCR evolutionary history in vertebrates from teleost fish to mammals.
Hospital physicians' time is a critical resource in medical care. Two aspects are of interest. First, the time spent in direct patient contact - a key principle of effective medical care. Second, simultaneous task performance ('multitasking') which may contribute to medical error, impaired safety behaviour, and stress. There is a call for instruments to assess these aspects. A preliminary study to gain insight into activity patterns, time allocation and simultaneous activities of hospital physicians was carried out. Therefore an observation instrument for time-motion-studies in hospital settings was developed and tested.
Persistent diarrhoea in children is a common problem in low and middle income countries. To help target appropriate treatment for specific pathogens in the absence of diagnostic tests, we systematically reviewed pathogens most commonly associated with persistent diarrhoea in children.
Circulating endothelial cells may serve as novel markers of angiogenesis. These include a subset of hem-endothelial progenitor cells that play a vital role in vascular growth and repair. The presence and clinical implications of circulating RNA levels as an expression for hematopoietic and endothelial-specific markers have not been previously evaluated in preterm infants. This study aims to determine circulating RNA levels of hem-endothelial marker genes in peripheral blood of preterm infants and begin to correlate these findings with prenatal complications.
A phenotype of increased muscle mass (IMM) and reduced fat, comparable to reported effects of deleterious mutations in the myostatin gene (MSTN), has been observed in the Norwegian Spaelsau breed. However, the genotyping of five AI rams producing descendants with this phenotype, failed to reveal any of the known functional MSTN mutations.
The selection of the most accurate protein model from a set of alternatives is a crucial step in protein structure prediction both in template-based and ab initio approaches. Scoring functions have been developed which can either return a quality estimate for a single model or derive a score from the information contained in the ensemble of models for a given sequence. Local structural features occurring more frequently in the ensemble have a greater probability of being correct. Within the context of the CASP experiment, these so called consensus methods have been shown to perform considerably better in selecting good candidate models, but tend to fail if the best models are far from the dominant structural cluster. In this paper we show that model selection can be improved if both approaches are combined by pre-filtering the models used during the calculation of the structural consensus.
Oxidative and cytotoxic damage plays an important role in cerebral ischemic pathogenesis and may represent a target for treatment. Curcumin is proved to elicit a vanity of biological effects through its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. But the mechanisms underlying are poorly understood. The transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) coordinates expression of genes required for free radical scavenging, detoxification of xenobiotics, and maintenance of redox potential. This study evaluated the time course expression regularity of Nrf2, HO-1 and the curcumin's role in cerebral ischemia and its potential mechanism.
Pouchitis and dysplasia may affect the reservoir after restorative proctocolectomy.
The influence of gastritis patterns in Helicobacter pylori eradication rates has been poorly investigated.
The mucus layer is an important dynamic component of the epithelial barrier. It contains mucin glycoproteins and other compounds secreted by the intestinal epithelium, such as secretory IgA. However, a standardized in vivo sampling technique of mucus in humans is not yet available.
While cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or ALS-like conditions have arisen in apparent association with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ('statins') and/or other lipid-lowering drugs (collectively termed 'statins' in this paper for brevity), additional information is needed to understand whether the connection may be causal. The University of California, San Diego (UCSD) Statin Effects Study is a patient-targeted adverse event surveillance project focused on lipid-lowering agents, whose aim is to capitalize on patient reporting to further define characteristics and natural history of statin adverse effects (AEs), and to ascertain whether a patient-targeted surveillance system might lead to presumptive identification of previously unrecognized AEs. ALS was a candidate 'new' AE identified through this process. The aim of the analysis presented here was to examine characteristics and natural history of reported statin-associated ALS-like conditions with attention to factors that may bear on the issue of causality.
To improve medication safety effectively, one should systematically analyse and assess the risks for medication errors and determine the possible causes. So far, no risk-analysis instrument exists in healthcare that can be used to analyse and visualize risks, causes and consequences of potential adverse events in a prospective manner. In high-risk industries such as petrochemistry and aviation, the Bow-Tie model is frequently used. This model combines causes, errors, preventive and recovery measures, and consequences in one model and gives insight into the magnitude and causes of existing safety risks. The aim of our project was to study the usefulness of the Bow-Tie model in the hospital setting for prospective analysis of risks in the medication process in order to develop a practicable method.
The use of complementary therapies by patients has increased over the past 20 years, both in terms of self-medication and physician prescriptions. Among herbal medicines, those containing extracts of Asteraceae (Compositae), such as Echinacea spp., Arnica montana, Matricaria recutita and Calendula officinalis, are especially popular in the primary-care setting. However, there remains a gap between the growing acceptance of these remedies and the lack of data on their safety.
Atypical antipsychotic agents are increasingly being used for the treatment of behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia. However, recent data suggest that the risk of adverse effects may offset the benefits of atypical agents in patients with dementia.
Although the increasing use of drugs in elderly persons has raised many concerns in recent years, the process leading to polypharmacy (PP) and excessive polypharmacy (EPP) remains largely unknown.
Adherence to medication is generally considered to be poor in many patient groups, but little is known about adherence to medication in the nursing home setting. It is also unclear if residents in nursing homes are involved in decision making about medication.
Prescribing for older patients is challenging and complex. Cancer patients are at a considerable increased risk of drug-related problems because they typically receive a large number of medications during their cancer treatment, both for the cancer itself and for supportive care. Few studies have examined the scope of this problem in older newly diagnosed cancer patients.
NF-kappaB is one of the nuclear effectors of EGFR activation. There are reports showing that NF-kappaB expression and activity is enhanced after nicotine treatment. Some data demonstrated that NF-kappaB activation plays a role in the induction of resistance to cetuximab and irinotecan in advanced colorectal tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of cigarette smoking on cetuximab efficacy in advanced colorectal cancer patients.
Until few years ago, all neoplastic cells within a tumour were suggested to have tumorigenic capacity, but recent evidences hint to the possibility that such feature is confined to a subset of Cancer Initiating Cells (CICs), also called Cancer Stem Cells (CSCs). These cells are the reservoir of the heterogeneous populations of differentiated cancer cells constituting the tumour bulk. Mechanisms shared with somatic stem cells, such as quiescence, self-renewal ability, asymmetric division and multidrug resistance, allow to these cells to drive tumour growth and to evade conventional therapy.
Universal and timely administration of a prepandemic vaccine is considered to be one of the most effective measures to reduce the incidence of pandemic influenza infection and consequently its morbidity and mortality.
Psoriasis is a chronic, autoimmune, T-cell mediated, inflammatory disease. An improved understanding of the pathogenesis of the autoimmune response has led to the development of targeted biologic therapies. Briakinumab is a human monocolonal antibody that blocks the activity of the cytokines IL-12 and IL-23. Immune dysregulation has been implicated in multiple inflammatory disorders and briakinumab has been investigated for the treatment of psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and multiple sclerosis.
The aim of the study was to investigate the histopathological and ultrastructural correlate of delayed epithelial healing in eyes with lattice corneal dystrophy (LCD).
To examine the effects of anti-VEGF antibody (bevacizumab) on the number of fenestrations in rat choriocapillaris.
To compare spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT) cross-sectional images of human central retina obtained from donor eyes with and without age-related macular degeneration (AMD) to corresponding histopathology from light micrographs. To establish the utility of SDOCT for localizing pathology in the posterior eyecup, for identifying ocular disease in donor eyes, or for directing subsequent sectioning of retinal lesions for research.
Optic nerve head damage may result from high intraocular pressure (IOP) associated with the exfoliation syndrome (EXS). At equal IOP levels, eyes with EXS may suffer damage more easily than eyes without EXS. Opinion differs as to whether EXS alone, without the contributory effect of a raised IOP, is a risk factor for optic nerve head damage.
In this pilot study the effects of vitrectomy on PO(2) in the vitreous cavity in CRVO were investigated.
The repeatability and interchangeability of imaging devices measuring central corneal thickness (CCT) and anterior chamber depth (ACD) are important in the assessment of patients considering refractive surgery. The purpose of this study was to investigate the agreement of CCT and ACD measurements using three imaging technologies in healthy eyes and in eyes after phakic intraocular lens implantation (pIOL).
To report 12-month follow-up results of 156 eyes treated with anti-VEGF for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) secondary to age-related macular degeneration, and to verify the efficacy of this treatment in terms of functional results and changes of morphology of choroidal membrane for the different types of choroidal neovascularization analyzed.
Longstanding diabetes mellitus results in a disturbed microcirculation. A new imaging oximeter was used to investigate the effect of this disturbance on retinal vessel oxygen saturation.
To investigate, in a rabbit model, the effect of two different doses of vigabatrin (VGB) on retinal function and morphology.
This study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of dietary n-6 and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in dry eye in a rat model.
Norovirus infection is the most frequent cause of infectious diarrhoea in the western world. This study aimed to characterise functionally and histomorphologically the diseased duodenum in human biopsies.
Oesophageal motility, as measured by manometry, is normal in the majority of patients with eosinophilic oesophagitis (EO). However, manometry measures only the circular muscle function of the oesophagus. The goal of the present study was to assess circular and longitudinal muscle function during peristalsis in patients with EO.
Although non-AIDS defining malignancies are rapidly increasing as HIV-infected subjects live longer, little is know about the results of screening for colonic neoplasms (adenomatous polyps and adenocarcinomas) in this population.
Patients with Crohn's disease have defects in intestinal epithelial permeability that are inadequately explained by known inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) susceptibility genes. E-cadherin (CDH1) plays a vital role in maintaining the integrity of the intestinal barrier and its cellular localisation is disrupted in patients with Crohn's disease.
The purpose of this study was to examine a human fetus with combined holoprosencephaly and cyclopia by means of histology and 3-D reconstruction to determine the internal structure and extent of the malformation.
Nosocomial outbreaks of Legionnaires disease have been linked to contaminated water in hospitals. Immunocompromised patients are particularly vulnerable and, when infected, have a high mortality rate. We report the investigation of a cluster of cases of nosocomial pneumonia attributable to Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 that occurred among patients on our stem cell transplantation unit.
As a reduced-intensity stem-cell transplantation (RIST) regimen, the combination of fludarabine and melphalan (FM) with an appropriate immunosuppressant reduces nonrelapse mortality (NRM).
Opioids are key drugs for cancer pain relief, but some patients, especially those who have gastroenterological cancers, suffer from severe opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (OBD), which reduces their quality of life. In order to achieve better pain relief, efforts to minimize OBD are required.
For patients with a thoracic malignancy whose peripheral veins are not suitable for blood access for chemotherapy, we evaluated a totally implantable central venous access port, in which the port is implanted in the ulnar side of the arm and the catheter is introduced via the basilic vein into the superior vena cava (TIAP-BV).
We investigated the long-term outcome of upper urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) after surgery.
In breast cancer (BC) patients the brachial plexus syndrome (BPS) has been reported to be due to loco-regional metastases or radiation plexopathy. Associated arm edema is considered more suggestive of the latter. Radiation therapy is the only effective treatment for BPS reported.
We retrospectively assessed the survival benefit of novel anticancer agents (NACA) after volume-reduction surgery for far-advanced gastric cancer (FAGC).
This study was conducted using irinotecan and cisplatin (IP) concurrently with thoracic radiation therapy to evaluate the response and toxicity of this protocol in the treatment of patients with limited-disease small cell lung cancer (LD-SCLC).
The structure of radiation oncology in designated cancer care hospitals in Japan was investigated in terms of equipment, personnel, patient load, and geographic distribution, and compared with the structure in other radiotherapy facilities.
Screening for psychiatric disorders in primary care can improve the detection rate and helps in preventing grave consequences of unrecognised and untreated psychiatric morbidity. This is relevant to the Malaysian setting where mental health care is now also being provided at primary care level. The aim of this paper is to report the prevalence of psychiatric illness in a semi-urban primary care setting in Malaysia using the screening tool Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ).
Little is known about the impact biomechanics sustained by players during interscholastic football.
Chronic ankle instability (CAI) has been previously and separately associated with deficits in dynamic stability and proximal joint neuromuscular alterations, but how the 2 factors relate is unclear.
The relationship between generalized joint laxity and plantar pressure distribution of the foot and the potential implications for lower extremity injury have not been studied.
Health care professionals commonly prescribe external stabilization to decrease the incidence and severity of ankle sprains. The mechanism for this decrease is not clearly understood. Examining the effects of ankle bracing on biomechanical stability and influencing factors may provide important information regarding the neuromuscular effects of bracing.
Academic programs rely on outcomes assessments to determine if changes in the curriculum are necessary.
Various consensus and position statements recommend a multifaceted approach when diagnosing a possible concussion. The effectiveness of these materials depends largely on their content being disseminated to educators and to those in the clinical setting.
Clinicians have questioned the need to obtain annual baseline neuropsychological tests in high school athletes. If no difference among academic grades exists, annual baseline testing may not be necessary.
The use of sport-specific imagery during rehabilitation is sparse. Athletes who used imagery (either facilitative or debilitative) during injury rehabilitation were compared with injured athletes who did not use imagery. Return-to-practice anxiety in the groups was investigated also.
Medical professionals have recognized eating disorders and related problems in competitive athletes. Auxiliary members (color guard, dance, majorettes) experience the same appearance-related pressures observed in sports commonly associated with eating disorders.
The relationship between major depression and increased platelet activity has been previously indicated by several studies. The aims of this study were to examine mean platelet volume (MPV), which is an indicator of platelet activity, in patients with depression and investigate whether escitalopram treatment would affect MPV.
One of the major enzymes of the cytochrome P450 drug-metabolizing system, CYP2D6, shows a high degree of genetic polymorphism and variability in activity. Based on the degree of CYP2D6 activity, individuals can be broadly classified as poor metabolizers (PMs) or extensive metabolizers (EMs); the metabolism of CYP2D6 substrates differs among PMs and EMs. The metabolism of various drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6 has been used as a marker for metabolic phenotype, calculating the plasma or urinary metabolic ratio of the parent compound to its metabolite. The current analysis evaluates the use of the O-desmethylvenlafaxine-venlafaxine ratio (ODV/VEN) after administration of VEN, a CYP2D6 substrate, for determining CYP2D6 metabolic phenotype in healthy adults receiving VEN.
Olfactory dysfunction, impaired odor identification in particular, is known to occur in Alzheimer disease (AD). The entorhinal cortex and the olfactory bulb, critical areas for olfactory function, are rich in acetylcholine, the neurotransmitter implicated in AD pathology and treatment. In view of the common anatomical substrate, we aimed to determine whether performance on an olfaction test can be used as a clinical marker for monitoring the efficacy of donepezil in elderly people with AD.
Patients in haemodialysis units are at an increased risk of blood borne virus infections. Birmingham city (West Midlands, UK) has a large number of its population from an ethnic origin other than white (30%). Recently due to the increase in number of haemodialysis centres abroad and particularly in the Indian Subcontinent, a large number of haemodialysis patients from these ethnic minorities are encouraged to take holidays in their countries of origin.
Dengue is a major public health problem in both children and adults in Vietnam, but dengue severity in adults has been poorly investigated.
Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) was discovered recently. It is considered a potential causative agent of Merkel cell carcinoma, a life-threatening skin cancer.
Human bocavirus (HBoV) is a recently identified parvovirus associated with respiratory disease in infants. Animal bocaviruses have been shown to cause intrauterine infection, fetal anasarca and abortion in late gestation.
The circulation rate and the clinical severity of infections caused by members of the new human rhinovirus C (HRV-C) species remain to be defined.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a necessary event in the development of cervical carcinoma. High risk (HR) HPV genotypes, however, may progress differentially from low grade lesions to malignancy.
Blood screening for hepatitis B virus (HBV) is not universally performed for donor selection in human milk banks.
Epidemics of acute hemorrhagic conjunctivitis (AHC) caused by a coxsackievirus A24 variant (CA24v) appeared in Taiwan in 2000-2002 and again in 2006-2007.
Intrafamilial and sexual transmission of hepatitis C virus (HCV) are still being debated, and little is known about such transmission in central Africa.
Human adenovirus (HAdV) infections, while common in infancy and childhood, occur rarely in the neonatal period but may be fatal.
BK virus, genus polyomavirus, is known as an important cause of nephropathy (BKVN) in renal transplant patients. Cases of BKVN in native kidneys are rare.
Chronic hepatitis C is a worldwide health problem. Intravenous drug users are the main risk group.
Partial-treatment interruption in patients with drug-resistant viremia has been associated with stable HIV RNA levels suggesting that interruption of protease inhibitors may be an effective strategy for patients without other therapeutic options while waiting for the development of new drugs.
Despite the improved sensitivity of the 4th generation combined antigen/antibody HIV assays, detection of HIV in the early phase of an infection may still be ineffective.
Canine (MDCK) cells and chicken eggs are usually used for isolation of human influenza viruses. Viruses isolated by these procedures often differ from those present in the clinical specimens, since adaptive changes occur during virus transmission from the human host to cells of heterologous origin.
Polyomavirus associated nephropathy (PVAN) is an important cause of graft failure in the renal transplant population. It has been shown that viremia precedes PVAN, suggesting that measurement of blood viral load could be used for PVAN screening.
Human enteroviruses (HEVs) are common pathogens which cause a broad spectrum of illnesses ranging from asymptomatic infection to acute myocarditis and aseptic meningitis. The neutralization assay for serotype determination is labor-intensive and time-consuming. There is a need for a methodology that is more rapid and widely accessible.
Although recognized as a significant respiratory pathogen, there is a dearth of information on genetic diversity of human respiratory syncytial virus (HRSV) strains among children in India.
Classical lysyl oxidase (LO) is involved in the stabilization and repair of extracellular matrix by the oxidization of lysine residues in collagen and elastin. Five genetically distinct species of LOs (LOX and LOXL1-4) have been identified, but their functions remain unclear.
Repeated exposures to ultraviolet B radiation (UVB) induce pigmented spots on dorsal skin of (HR-1 x HR/De) F(1) hairless mouse. We showed previously that this mouse is suitable for studies of melanocyte function.
Infection by high-risk HPV (human papillomavirus) is the primary cause of cervical cancer. Dendritic cell-based (DC-based) therapeutic vaccine represents a promising approach to the prevention and treatment of many cancers, including HPV-related cancers, but current strategies have met with only limited success in preclinical and clinical research. It is necessary to find a properly and effective antigen presenting system of DC-based vaccine.
The desmoglein 3 (Dsg3) knockout mouse and pemphigus vulgaris (PV) mouse model present a similar type of supra-basal acantholysis, even though the subcellular mechanism is considered to be completely different.
Diabetes mellitus is characterized by a chronic hyperglycemia and might cause skin pathologies resulting from an ischemic insult. A variety of mechanisms have been suggested for the damage provided by ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) or for hyperglycemic conditions. Yet, the association between IRI and hyperglycemia together in skin has been poorly investigated even thought they are both present in diabetic patients.
Examination and management of the sexually assaulted patient comprise a complex task. On-call nurses with advanced training are used in some hospitals, but their impact on patient care and appropriate forensic examination is largely unknown. We evaluated the impact of the introduction of a sexual assault/domestic violence program (SADVP) on ED flow, comprehensive patient care, and collection of forensic evidence.
In our facility an operational process intervention was implemented to decrease overcrowding. The intervention consisted of implementing criteria (developed from a series of 8 interactive workshops led by the investigators with all charge and staff nurses) describing when we should "close the waiting room." The purpose of this study was to explore the charge nurses' perceptions of the intervention and their experiences with implementation several months after the operational change began.
Intravenous (IV) catheter placement is an extremely common painful procedure performed in all ages and healthcare settings, more often than not without anesthetics, despite clear research and guidelines demonstrating their effectiveness. This study examined differences in pain scores following topical anesthetic and placebo application, in a sample of healthy adult volunteers experiencing IV catheterization.
Medical and technologic developments entail new competence demands in emergency health care, and it follows that head nurses must recognize and create prerequisites, as well as evaluate the competence of registered nurses. The aim of this study is to describe head nurses' conceptions of emergency nursing competence needs and their responsibility for creating prerequisites of competence development in emergency nursing.
This article examines acute pain assessment and pharmacological management in the emergency department that occurred over a period of time after the release of the new pain assessment and management compliance standards of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) for accredited health care organizations. Data were available from that collected for a large-scale study testing a Translating Research into Practice intervention to promote use of evidence-based practices for acute pain management in older adults.
FBG2 (F-BOX6) gene is an important member in ubiquitin metabolic system F-BOX family, and forms E3 complex with the other members in the family. But its role in gastric cancer is still not clear. In the present study, we intended to investigate the influence of FBG2 on the growth, proliferation, apoptosis, invasion and cell cycle of the gastric cancer line MKN45 and gastric cell line HFE145.
There are several reports suggesting that hyperosmolarity induces inflammation. We recently showed that Dextran Sodium Sulfate causes inflammatory bowel disease due to hyperosmolarity. The aim of this study was to confirm the link between hyperosmolarity and inflammation by assessing osmolarity values in vivo during inflammation, compare the inflammatory potential of different osmotic agents and finally study the long-term consequences of hyperosmolarity on cell fate.
An artemisinin-based combination therapy, artesunate (AS) plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP), was compared to SP monotherapy to provide evidence of further treatment options in southern Mozambique.
NCT00203736 and NCT00203814.
At the end of their infant's NICU stay, parents are expected to assume full responsibility for their infant's care. It is important to look at discharge practices from the parents' points of view to see whether our strategies are effective.
Uterine cervical cancer represents a public health problem in Mexico; the patients suffer physical and psychological stress leading to depression and weight loss. Eating with a relative has positive effects in food ingestion and depressive status in hospitalized patients. In our society, food is the closest way that family members have to bring care and to show affection to the patient that has less appetite as disease goes on.
To perform a balanced diet adapted to the needs of the different life stages is important for a correct peoples physical and psychological growth, preventing disease, and obtaining an optimal health status. The industrialized society is characterized by unbalanced energy balance due to an increase of energy intake through foods and decreased energy waste with increased SFA consumption.
The population of Guadalajara traditionally has consumed a Mediterranean diet with the typical variations of the central zone of the peninsula, but the acquisition of erroneous habits of life they can be translated, specially in the young people, in a not healthful nourishing conducts.
Home-based enteral nutrition in Madrid uses the official prescription form which facilitates the use of information systems for analyzing consumption and evolution.
It is necessary to know the levels of physical activity (PA) for a better understanding of the development of chronic diseases in youth. The aim of this study was to assess levels of total PA and time spent in different PAintensities in Spanish adolescents by accelerometer.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) represents a life-long chronic inflammatory process frequently associated to potential multiorganic complications. Cardiovascular diseases and nutritional alterations are increased in AR populations and represent potential factors that alter negatively the disease course and prognosis.
The signaling pathways imposing hormonal control over adipocyte differentiation are poorly understood. While insulin and Akt signaling have been found previously to be essential for adipogenesis, the relative importance of their many downstream branches have not been defined. One direct substrate that is inhibited by Akt-mediated phosphorylation is the tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (TSC2) protein, which associates with TSC1 and acts as a critical negative regulator of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 1 (mTORC1). Loss of function of the TSC1-TSC2 complex results in constitutive mTORC1 signaling and, through mTORC1-dependent feedback mechanisms and loss of mTORC2 activity, leads to a concomitant block of Akt signaling to its other downstream targets.
The linkages between neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis are well established. What is not, however, is how specific immune pathways and proteins affect the disease. To this end, we previously demonstrated that transgenic over-expression of CCL2 enhanced microgliosis and induced diffuse amyloid plaque deposition in Tg2576 mice. This rodent model of AD expresses a Swedish beta-amyloid (Abeta) precursor protein mutant.
Despite significant improvements in life expectancy of kidney transplant patients due to advances in surgery and immunosuppression, Chronic Allograft Nephropathy (CAN) remains a daunting problem. A complex network of cellular mechanisms in both graft and peripheral immune compartments complicates the non-invasive diagnosis of CAN, which still requires biopsy histology. This is compounded by non-immunological factors contributing to graft injury. There is a pressing need to identify and validate minimally invasive biomarkers for CAN to serve as early predictors of graft loss and as metrics for managing long-term immunosuppression.
Biomass has been studied as biomarker to evaluate the effect of heavy metals on microbial communities. Nevertheless, the most important methodological problem when working with natural and artificial microbial mats is the difficulty to evaluate changes produced on microorganism populations that are found in thicknesses of just a few mm depth.
The replication of coronaviruses takes place on cytoplasmic double membrane vesicles (DMVs) originating in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Three trans-membrane non-structural proteins, nsp3, nsp4 and nsp6, are understood to be membrane anchors of the coronavirus replication complex. Nsp4 is localized to the ER membrane when expressed alone but is recruited into the replication complex in infected cells. It is revealed to contain four trans-membrane regions and its N- and C-termini are exposed to the cytosol.
LmrA is a multidrug ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter from Lactococcus lactis with no known physiological substrate, which can transport a wide range of chemotherapeutic agents and toxins from the cell. The protein can functionally replace the human homologue ABCB1 (also termed multidrug resistance P-glycoprotein MDR1) in lung fibroblast cells. Even though LmrA mediates ATP-dependent transport, it can use the proton-motive force to transport substrates, such as ethidium bromide, across the membrane by a reversible, H(+)-dependent, secondary-active transport reaction. The mechanism and physiological context of this reaction are not known.
Genome sequencing and bioinformatics have provided the full hypothetical proteome of many pathogenic organisms. Advances in microarray and mass spectrometry have also yielded large output datasets of possible target proteins/genes. However, the challenge remains to identify new targets for drug discovery from this wealth of information. Further analysis includes bioinformatics and/or molecular biology tools to validate the findings. This is time consuming and expensive, and could fail to yield novel drugs if protein purification and crystallography is impossible. To pre-empt this, a researcher may want to rapidly filter the output datasets for proteins that show good homology to proteins that have already been structurally characterised or proteins that are already targets for known drugs. Critically, those researchers developing novel antibiotics need to select out the proteins that show close homology to any human proteins, as future inhibitors are likely to cross-react with the host protein, causing off-target toxicity effects later in clinical trials.
Yersinia pestis is the causative agent of plague, which is transmitted primarily between fleas and mammals and is spread to humans through the bite of an infected flea or contact with afflicted animals. Hfq is proposed to be a global post-transcriptional regulator that acts by mediating interactions between many regulatory small RNAs (sRNAs) and their mRNA targets. Sequence comparisons revealed that Y. pestis appears to produce a functional homologue of E. coli Hfq.
Until very recently, AcrB was the only Resistance Nodulation and cell Division transporter for which the structure has been elucidated. Towards a general understanding of this protein family, CusA and AcrB were compared.
RNA interference (RNAi) induced through double stranded RNA (dsRNA) has been used widely to study gene function in insects. Recently, it has been reported that gene knockdown in several insects can be induced successfully through feeding with dsRNA. However, it is still unknown whether phenotypic silencing of genes not expressed in the midgut occurs after ingestion of insect dsRNA.
Glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and its analogue exendin-4 (Ex-4) enhance glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) and activate various signaling pathways in pancreatic beta-cells, in particular cAMP, Ca(2+) and protein kinase-B (PKB/Akt). In many cells these signals activate intermediary metabolism. However, it is not clear whether the acute amplification of GSIS by GLP-1 involves in part metabolic alterations and the production of metabolic coupling factors.
Herceptin (trastuzumab) is a humanized monoclonal antibody that is approved for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer patients whose tumors overexpress Her2 (erbB2/neu). Up to 70% of Her2-positive breast cancers demonstrate a response to Herceptin-based therapies, but resistance almost inevitably arises within a year of the initial response. To help understand the mechanism of Herceptin resistance, we isolated clonal variants of Her2-positive BT474 human breast cancer cells (BT/Her(R)) that are highly resistant to Herceptin. These cell lines exhibit sustained PI3K/Akt signaling as an essential component of Herceptin-resistant proliferation. Several genes in the protein kinase A (PKA) signaling network have altered expression in BT/Her(R) cells, including PPP1R1B, which encodes a 32 kDa protein known as Darpp-32 and its amino-terminal truncated variant, t-Darpp. The purpose of the current work was to determine the role of Darpp-32 and t-Darpp in Herceptin resistance.
In humans, mutations in the enzyme glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GARS) cause motor and sensory axon loss in the peripheral nervous system, and clinical phenotypes ranging from Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy to a severe infantile form of spinal muscular atrophy. GARS is ubiquitously expressed and may have functions in addition to its canonical role in protein synthesis through catalyzing the addition of glycine to cognate tRNAs.
Neurotrophic factors have been shown to possess strong neuroprotective and neurorestaurative properties in Parkinson's disease patients. However the issues to control their delivery into the interest areas of the brain and their surgical administration linked to their unability to cross the blood brain barrier are many drawbacks responsible of undesirable side effects limiting their clinical use. A strategy implying the use of neurotrophic small molecules could provide an interesting alternative avoiding neurotrophin administration and side effects. In an attempt to develop drugs mimicking neurotrophic factors, we have designed and synthesized low molecular weight molecules that exhibit neuroprotective and neuritogenic potential for dopaminergic neurons.
Staphylococcus aureus is commonly carried asymptomatically in the human anterior nares and occasionally enters the bloodstream to cause invasive disease. Much of the global diversity of S. aureus remains uncharacterised, and is not clear how disease propensity varies between strains, and between host populations.
One of the challenges in exploiting high throughput measurement techniques such as microarrays is the conversion of the vast amounts of data obtained into relevant knowledge. Of particular importance is the identification of the intrinsic response of a transcriptional experiment and the characterization of the underlying dynamics.
A microorganism is a complex biological system able to preserve its functional features against external perturbations and the ability of the living systems to oppose to these external perturbations is defined "robustness". The antibiotic resistance, developed by different bacteria strains, is a clear example of robustness and of ability of the bacterial system to acquire a particular functional behaviour in response to environmental changes. In this work we have modeled the whole mechanism essential to the methicillin-resistance through a systems biology approach. The methicillin is a beta-lactamic antibiotic that act by inhibiting the penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). These PBPs are involved in the synthesis of peptidoglycans, essential mesh-like polymers that surround cellular enzymes and are crucial for the bacterium survival.
The importance of employment in lives of people with psychiatric disabilities is well documented. Yet, the role of case managers in facilitating or inhibiting employment opportunities for consumers is only beginning to be understood. This study examined the psychometric properties of a newly developed self-report measure designed to assess case managers' employment-related expectations of consumers.
Health care organizations and providers are under constant pressure to do more with less. On the other hand, users of health care services are faced with problems due to errors in communication between professionals, fragmentation of care and gaps in the continuum of care.
Electronic Patient Record (EPR) TT- 2000+ was implemented in Hospital Orton in January 2008. The software TT 2000+ was implemented in 2005. TT- 2000+ enables structured and specifically defined documentation in clinical nursing practice.
In Iran there are about 70 deaths per day from road traffic injuries (RTIs). Despite some interventions having been implemented during the past 5 years, the impacts of these interventions on mortality and morbidity rates have not been well evaluated.
Diarrhea kills 2 million children worldwide each year, yet an etiological agent is not found in approximately 30-50% of cases. Picornaviral genera such as enterovirus, kobuvirus, cosavirus, parechovirus, hepatovirus, teschovirus, and cardiovirus have all been found in human and animal diarrhea. Modern technologies, especially deep sequencing, allow rapid, high-throughput screening of clinical samples such as stool for new infectious agents associated with human disease.
The viral genome of hepatitis C virus constitutes a 9.6-kb single-stranded positive-sense RNA which encodes altogether 11 viral proteins. In order to study the humoral immune responses against different HCV proteins in patients suffering from chronic HCV infection, we produced three structural (core, E1 and E2) and six nonstructural proteins (NS2, NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A and NS5B) in Sf9 insect cells by using the baculovirus expression system.
Acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) is associated with increased hospitalization rates and high in-hospital mortality, and has emerged as a major public health problem over the past decade. In recent years, several new drugs and therapeutic approaches have failed to reduce short- and long-term morbidity and mortality in ADHF patients. New agents and strategies are under investigation in order to effectively reduce the mortality and morbidity in these patients.
With an increasing worldwide burden of liver failure and liver cancer from chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, discovery and development efforts for new antiviral medicines for HCV are expanding rapidly. Two HCV protease inhibitors (PIs), telaprevir (VX950) and boceprevir (SCH503034), are now furthest along in clinical development, with Phase II data suggesting a potential treatment advance with triple combination regimens comprising a protease inhibitor, pegylated interferon and ribavirin. However, the current data suggest that such regimens will fail to produce sustained virologic responses in &gt; or = 30 - 40% of patients, and tolerance of interferon/ribavirin treatment regimens is often problematic; hence, there is a need for continued development of new anti-HCV agents to further optimize treatment efficacy and safety. The HCV polymerase (HCV Pol) is an attractive target for antiviral therapy because the gene sequences encoding HCV Pol are relatively conserved across the six main HCV genotypes and the emergence of viral resistance is expected to be relatively slow for pharmaceutical agents, such as nucleoside analogues, that are targeted to the active (catalytic) site of HCV Pol.
Using agonists that selectively stimulate PGE2 receptors, the adverse effects that have limited the clinical utility of PGE2 can be avoided and there may be potential for their use as therapeutic agents in the treatment of bone loss in humans.
The World Health Organization (WHO) report has predicted that major depression will become a key cause of illness-induced disability by the year 2020, second only to ischemic heart diseases.
Migraine is a common and disabling neurological disorder. Although the pharmacotherapy of migraine has advanced in parallel with our understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease, there is still a considerable unmet need to find more effective treatments. Migraine pathophysiology involves activation or the perception of activation of the trigeminovascular system. Glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS, is implicated in elements of the pathophysiology of the disorder, including trigeminovascular activation, central sensitization and cortical spreading depression.
The efficacy of thrombopoietin (TPO) mimetics in patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) reaffirms that impaired platelet production is an important mechanism. New strategies to reduce platelet destruction, like rituximab, are also effective.
In asthma, anti-inflammatory therapy can usually reduce airway eosinophilic inflammation; but in certain subgroups this persists despite maximal therapy, and disease control is suboptimal. Mepolizumab is an anti IL-5. antibody that might reduce airway inflammation in such subgroups.
Pancreatic cancer is one of the most aggressive gastrointestinal cancer with less than 10% long-term survivors. The apoptotic pathway deregulation is a postulated mechanism of carcinogenesis of this tumor. The present study investigated the prognostic role of MUC2 and MUC5 apomucin expression in a series of surgically resected pancreatic cancer patients.
Although recent literature suggests a changing spectrum for infectious pericarditis (IP), this view has not been proven. In this report, we aim to review the features of IP in cases from a large tertiary centre.
Various cardiac pathologies have been linked to ankylosing spondylitis (AS) in various conflicting reports.
Pre- and postoperative imaging is important and essential for evaluation of the results of rhinoplasty surgery. Two-dimensional photographs are used routinely for this purpose, but have several disadvantages as opposed to three-dimensional imaging techniques, such as stereophotogrammetry. This study is the first to describe the measurement of rhinoplasty results using stereophotogrammetry. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of 3D imaging to measure and objectify rhinoplasty results.
For many cases of tip surgery a delivery approach is selected. If the patient has long alar cartilages, it may be difficult to deliver the cartilages without twisting or tearing the domes. In such a patient, a modified delivery approach may be easier to perform.
With the event of angled endoscopes, image guidance and the rapidly improving endoscopic techniques the previously used osteoplastic frontal sinus fat obliteration (ISO) becomes more and more a second line treatment option. The objective of our study is to describe the up-to-date indications for FSO based on our own experience.
CT scan and nasal endoscopy are increasingly being used in diagnosing and treating patients of chronic rhinosinusitis. Though CT scan accurately depicts the sinus pathology its use as a proxy in assessing the symptom severity of patients is debatable. In this study the symptom severity of chronic rhinosinusitis was correlated with the author's modified CT scan score.
The clinical manifestation of allergic rhinitis is influenced by many factors; while different subpopulations are not well defined. Different combinations of allergic sensitization may lead to different clinical manifestations of allergic disease.
It is unclear whether remodeling exists in allergic rhinitis in man. The aim of this study was to establish a guinea pig model of allergic rhinitis with remodeling and to examine the effects of dexamethasone and pranlukast on nasal mucosa remodeling.
Rhinitis prevalence is increasing worldwide and is frequently associated with asthma, for which it is a risk factor. The aims of the study were to characterise the adult population with rhinitis attending the Cova da Beira Hospital Allergy Clinic, and to assess the relationship between rhinitis and asthma.
The clinical diagnostic of Graves ophthalmopathy is based on the association of ocular signs and the disease of the thyroid gland. The evolution of the disease involves the development of eye globe protrusion, extraocular muscle thickening pressuring the optic nerve, which can result in its thickness.
There are subjective and objective ways to examine the effects of vocal therapy in voice disorders. The most precise and objective check-up is the use of computer voice analysis.
Insufficient femoral head coverage is found in a variety of diseases, with acetabular dysplasia as the most frequent disorder and triple pelvic osteotomy as the most recently introduced surgical treatment.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects sacroiliac joints, spinal column and peripheral joints. Beside medication therapy, physical and balneotherapy play an important role in its complex treatment.
Localization of ureteric stones and difference in disintegration success are the most important factors in determining the first treatment approach for ureteric stones.
During chemotherapy of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), children sometimes exhibit neurological disturbances. Chemiotherapeutic regimens include methotrexate, administered either intravenously or via intrathecal route. Although multiple drugs are used in addition to methotrexate, the acute neurotoxicity reported in patients is usually attributed to methotrexate. The acute neurotoxicity usually results in stroke-like symptoms such as aphasia, weakness, sensory deficits, ataxia and seizures.
Measurement of vessel stenosis using ultrasonography or magnetic resonance is still the principal method for determining the severity of carotid atherosclerosis and need for endarterectomy.
Moderate ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR) is characterized by significant, symptomatic multivessel coronary disease and mitral regurgitation 2-3+.
The causes of intrahepatic cholestasis include cholestatic viral hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, benign recurrent cholestasis, primary sclerosing cholangitis and sepsis. During sepsis, proinflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide cause cholestasis by impairing hepatocellular and ductal bile formation.
Acetylsalicylic acid ingestion may cause serious gastrointestinal toxicity, in particular bleeding or perforated peptic ulcer.
Actinomycosis of the caecum is a rare, but most frequently an abdominally localized disease. It often simulates inflammatory malignancy, rarely a periappendicular abscess or Chron's disease and is only exceptionally the cause of intestinal obstruction or bleeding.
Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease is the most common heritable cystic renal disease occurring in infancy and childhood. The clinical spectrum of signs and symptoms of this disease is widely variable ranging from perinatal death to a milder progressive form, which cannot be diagnosed until adolescence.
This paper deals with medicolegal aspects of the hospital treatment of patients suffering from severe mental disorders and who are prone to violent behaviour, dangerous to self and others. Violent acts in this study were defined as deliberate and nonconsensual acts of actual, attempted or threatened harm to a person or persons, and classified into categories of any type of violence, physical violence and non-physical violence, which is in accordance with approaches used in other risk assessment researches,
Hearing threshold data are not particularly predictive of self-perceived hearing handicap or readiness to pursue amplification. Poor correlations between these measures have been reported repeatedly. When a patient is evaluated for hearing loss, it is common to collect both threshold data and the individual's self-perception of hearing ability. This is done to help the patient make an appropriate choice related to the pursuit of amplification or other communication strategies. It would be valuable, though, for the audiologist to be able to predict which patients are ready for amplification, which patients require more extensive counseling before pursuing amplification, and which patients simply are not ready for amplification regardless of the audiometric data.
Considered a rare disorder, superficial siderosis of the central nervous system (SSCN) has become more frequently diagnosed in recent years. As it is characterized by progressive sensorineural hearing loss, patients' needs may surpass the capability of hearing aid technology. Despite the retrocochlear nature of the disorder, patients have undergone cochlear implantation (CI) with varying success.
The use of bilateral amplification is now common clinical practice for hearing aid users but not for cochlear implant recipients. In the past, most cochlear implant recipients were implanted in one ear and wore only a monaural cochlear implant processor. There has been recent interest in benefits arising from bilateral stimulation that may be present for cochlear implant recipients. One option for bilateral stimulation is the use of a cochlear implant in one ear and a hearing aid in the opposite nonimplanted ear (bimodal hearing).
The International Outcome Inventory for Hearing Aids (IOI-HA) was developed as a global hearing aid outcome measure targeting seven outcome domains. The published norms were based on a private-pay sample who were fitted with analog hearing aids.
While testing suprathreshold word recognition at multiple levels is considered best practice, studies on practice patterns do not suggest that this is common practice. Audiologists often test at a presentation level intended to maximize recognition scores, but methods for selecting this level are not well established for a wide range of hearing losses.
Preoperative carbohydrate (CHO) reduces perioperative insulin resistance and improves preoperative patient comfort. We tested the hypotheses that preoperative CHO reduces the risk of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) and improves early postoperative patient comfort.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is today the imaging modality of choice to investigate the neonatal brain. However, the acoustic noise during scanning is very loud, often exceeding 100 dBA.
The ability to monitor the change in expression patterns over time, and to observe the emergence of coherent temporal responses using gene expression time series, obtained from microarray experiments, is critical to advance our understanding of complex biological processes. In this context, biclustering algorithms have been recognized as an important tool for the discovery of local expression patterns, which are crucial to unravel potential regulatory mechanisms. Although most formulations of the biclustering problem are NP-hard, when working with time series expression data the interesting biclusters can be restricted to those with contiguous columns. This restriction leads to a tractable problem and enables the design of efficient biclustering algorithms able to identify all maximal contiguous column coherent biclusters.
A prototype implementation of the algorithm coded in Java together with the dataset and examples used in the paper is available in http://kdbio.inesc-id.pt/software/e-ccc-biclustering.
Acute intestinal toxicity is a frequent complication that may lead to interruption of treatment in patients undergoing pelvic radiotherapy. Reliable, non-invasive biological markers to evidence their severity are not yet available.
Fructose malabsorption, lactose malabsorption and an early rise in breath hydrogen after lactulose (ERBHAL) may play roles in induction of symptoms in gastrointestinal conditions.
Little data is available about predictors of sustained virological response (SVR) during anti-viral therapy of patients with decompensated HCV cirrhosis.
Debate exists regarding to whether thiopurine therapy is as effective in ulcerative colitis (UC) as it is in Crohn's disease.
In 1980, Garland hypothesized that lower levels of vitamin D resulting from much weaker UV-B radiation at higher latitudes may account for the striking geographical pattern of cancer mortality. Further research has been conducted over the past 20 years.
There has been no report on the response to proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy and on-demand or the relapse rate of non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) and erosive oesophagitis in Korea.
Gastric acid control is important for treatment of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease associated with Barrett's oesophagus. Substantial indirect evidence suggests that gastric acid control may have a chemopreventive role in Barrett's oesophagus.
Diet is thought to have an important role in the immunopathogenesis and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Analysis of antibiotic consumption among active duty soldiers can contribute to the development of actions designed to avoid unsuitable population exposure to antibiotics. This survey was conducted among active soldiers to establish a reference year for refund data on antibiotic prescriptions by gender and age. Another aim was to use the refund data among soldiers to learn more about the pattern of antibiotic prescriptions by general practitioners.
Mitral valve (MV) repair is considered to provide more favorable results than MV replacement. MV repair in a patient with severe left ventricular (LV) dysfunction could be associated with higher early and late mortality. Surgical indication of MV repair for those with low LV ejection fraction (LVEF) is still controversial.
The objective of this work was to determine if molecular heterogeneity exists between different intratumoral histological subtype foci of anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC).
The aim of the study was to assess the prognostic role of CD4 and CD8 expression and the type, density, localization and distribution of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in patients with breast cancer.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are involved in innate immunity. Overexpression of TLRs has been implicated in various types of cancer including colorectal cancer (CRC). The phosphatidylinositol-3'-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway is involved in CRC growth and progression. In this study, we determined whether TLR4 signaling and PI3K/Akt pathway activation occur in CRCs.
MYC is important in gastric carcinogenesis. A few studies reported MYC translocation or insertion associated with gastric cancer.
The antitumor growth and antimetastatic activity of panaxanthone (approximately 80% alpha-mangostin and 20% gamma-mangostin) were studied in a mouse metastatic mammary cancer model that produces a metastatic spectrum similar to that seen in human breast cancer.
An association between restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) of known oncogenes and a predisposition to develop cancer has been postulated. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that there was an association between the L-MYC S allele in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and a predisposition for the disease.
The therapeutic effects of oral capecitabine are proposed to be determined by the equilibrium of two intratumoral metabolizing enzymes, namely thymidine phosphorylase (TP) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD). The present study aims to evaluate this hypothesis by in vivo experiments and immunohistochemical analysis in 31 cases of human breast carcinoma.
Our recent report indicated that MGMT hypermethylation is more common in squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) in males, and smokers than in adenocarcinomas (ADC) in females, and nonsmokers. More interestingly, MGMT hypermethylation in SCC and ADC was pronouncedly influenced by gender factor, not by smoking status. We questioned whether 17beta-estradiol could modulate the machinery of promoter methylation to cause the gender difference of MGMT hypermethylation in lung cancer.
Metastasis is a leading cause of cancer death. To evaluate the complex metastatic process in vitro, an attempt was made to develop a cell-based assay (Can kit) that could evaluate the late stages of metastasis.
The prognostic significance of S100A as potential biomarker for breast cancer was reported; however, this finding has recently been challenged. Here, the aim was to assess whether S100A4 could also be a prognostic biomarker of lung cancer.
The factors associated with the clinical results of preoperative chemoradiotherapy (CRT) for esophageal cancer and its effect on postoperative complications are still unclear.
[18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose with positron-emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT) scans were used to assess morphological and metabolic tumour response after chemotherapy in metastatic colorectal cancer.
To better understand the significance of local insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) in the development of osteosarcoma, IGFBP-3 levels and subcellular localization were compared in biopsies from osteosarcomas and unaffected normal bone tissues.
Neuropathy is a common adverse effect of chemotherapy. The tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, is a gold standard in the treatment of neuropathic pain. This double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial assessed the efficacy of amitriptyline to prevent chemotherapy-induced neuropathic symptoms.
Lentinan (LNT) is an immune adjuvant medicine for advanced gastric cancer in Japan. Recently, an oral formulation of superfine dispersed lentinan (SDL) has become clinically available. To investigate the safety and effectiveness of SDL, a multi center clinical study in patients with advanced colorectal cancer was conducted.
The present study analyzed the clinical long-term outcome of patients with localized prostate cancer after definitive conformal radiotherapy with and without accompanying androgen deprivation (AD).
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent angiogenic factor related to tumor growth and metastasis. However, little is known about the clinical significance of circulating VEGF in cancer patients.
Definitive chemoradiation is a well-established option in the treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. The intention of this study was to evaluate its efficacy on cervical lymph node metastases in a prospective study after a standardized protocol for chemoradiation (CRT) and histopathological evaluation, respectively.
Giant basal cell carcinoma (GBCC) is an aggressive malignant neoplasm. Because of the rarity of the tumor and its recognized high risk of recurrence, there are no guidelines for its treatment.
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) and lung cancer are two of the most common respiratory diseases. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the prognostic significance of presence of ILD in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
The objective of this analysis is to identify relationships between side-effects, tumor biological factors and response to pre-operative epirubicin and paclitaxel therapy in primary breast cancer.
The role of combination chemotherapy regimens in the management of ovarian cancer patients with tumors previously exposed to platinum compounds and paclitaxel has not yet been defined. The present phase II study evaluated the activity and toxicity of a gemcitabine-ifosfamide-cisplatin combination in the aforementioned group of patients. Given the in vitro and in vivo synergism between the three agents, it was believed that using a three-drug combination would overcome tumor resistance to cisplatin.
Previous studies have reported any prognostic impact of preoperative leukocytosis, anemia and thrombocytosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The significance of the combined use of these 3 abnormal blood cell counts was investigated.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), developed for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), give modest results similar to those with chemotherapy. There is evidence of a greater survival benefit from TKIs in patients with certain molecular and clinical features, but results are conflicting. To assess the role of these factors in predicting TKI efficacy, a pooled analysis was performed on data from randomized trials in NSCLC.
The aim of this study was to analyze the occurrence of clinical features characteristic of breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA-1)-dependent tumors in a series of BRCA-1 mutation carriers with laryngeal cancer.
Bisphosphonates (BPs) are considered the standard of care in metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients with bone metastases. Because the survival for these patients may be prolonged compared with those patients with visceral metastases, they may be prescribed BPs for several years. The effects of this long-term BP use on calcium metabolism in MBC patients have not previously been described.
Canine cutaneous histiocytoma (CCH) is an epidermotropic tumour of Langerhans cells, most frequent in young dogs, which undergoes spontaneous regression.
Minimally invasive esophagectomy is an evolving alternative to the open technique with the goal of providing efficient oncological therapy while minimizing morbidity by diminishing surgical trauma.
In the present study, the effect of immunochemotherapy with lentinan compared with that of chemotherapy alone was evaluated in patients with advanced gastric cancer through individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis.
New therapeutic modalities are needed for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients whose tumors have become resistant to gefitinib.
The possibility of a dual-specificity tyrosine-(Y)-phosphorylation-regulated kinase gene, DYRK2, predicting benefit from chemotherapy for patients with recurrent non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was investigated.
Therapy by tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) has become inevitable in treatment of advanced NSCLC. Mutations in EGFR and KRAS genes have been identified as the main potential predictive and prognostic factors. Here the clinical implications of EGFR/KRAS mutations in patients from two separate trials treated with gefitinib or erlotinib are analysed.
The safety and efficacy of docetaxel plus S-1 combination chemotherapy as a first-line treatment in patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer was verified retrospectively.
The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of bone metastases of breast cancer and to compare RFA alone and RFA with additional bone cement application. The primary objectives were to compare pain reduction and quality of life during long-term follow-up in a prospective pilot study.
Despite radical surgical and chemotherapeutic treatment of ovarian cancer, the majority of patients develop recurrence and die due to progressive disease. Routine measurement of the tumor marker CA-125 is often used in the follow-up management. However, the role of preoperative CA-125 as a prognostic factor before secondary cytoreduction of relapsed ovarian cancer has not been determined.
Fibroadenomas are hyperplasia arising from the terminal ductulo-lobular unit and adjacent tissue of the breast. As single fibroadenoma, even giant ones are easily manageable, however multiple fibroadenomas pose a particular challenge.
The objective of the study was to quantify the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene in the circulating DNA of patients with primary breast cancer (BC) and to test its correlation with clinical parameters of the disease.
We retrospectively evaluated the efficacy of weekly paclitaxel therapy as second-line treatment for patients with advanced gastric cancer that was refractory to S-1.
To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of capecitabine when given concomitantly with carboplatin and intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) for treatment of localized stage III/IV squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (HNSCC).
Multidetector computed tomography has been proposed as a tool for routine screening for coronary artery calcification in asymptomatic individuals. As proposed, such screening could involve tens of millions of individuals, but detailed estimates of radiation doses and potential risk of radiation-induced cancer are not currently available. We estimated organ-specific radiation doses and associated cancer risks from coronary artery calcification screening with multidetector computed tomography according to patient age, frequency of screening, and scan protocol.
Hypertension (HTN) is a risk factor for dementia, and animal studies suggest that centrally active angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (those that cross the blood-brain barrier) may protect against dementia beyond HTN control.
Oral anticoagulant therapy is effective for the prevention of arterial thromboembolism in various patient groups. The increased risk of hemorrhage remains the major drawback to this therapy and is associated with the intensity of anticoagulation. Finding the optimal intensity at which the overall incidence rate of both bleeding and thromboembolic events is minimized represents a way to improve the safety of oral anticoagulant treatment.
The major adverse effect of warfarin treatment is hemorrhage. Several risk factors for bleeding complications are also risk factors for thromboembolic events, making the clinical decision to initiate or withhold anticoagulant treatment difficult. Specific markers that solely identify patients at high risk of bleeding would have great clinical impact. This study aimed to test if thrombomodulin (TM) concentrations were associated with bleeding complications, cardiovascular events, or mortality in long-term anticoagulant-treated patients.
There is little research on the association of lifestyle exercise, such as active commuting (walking or biking to work), with obesity, fitness, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors.
Success of antiretroviral therapy depends on high rates of adherence, but few interventions are effective. Our objective was to determine if modified directly observed therapy (mDOT) improves initial antiretroviral success.
The degree of effectiveness of condom use in preventing the transmission of herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2) is uncertain. To address this issue, we performed a large pooled analysis.
The validity of a self-reported stroke remains inconclusive.
Subclinical demyelinating lesions may occur in the brains of asymptomatic individuals.
Although cigarette smokers are at increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS), the effect of smoking on the progression of MS remains uncertain.
Exposure to pesticides has been reported to increase the risk of Parkinson disease (PD), but identification of the specific pesticides is lacking. Three studies have found elevated levels of organochlorine pesticides in postmortem PD brains.
Radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation (RAF) is an increasingly performed procedure. It is performed during cardiac surgery or percutaneously by catheter. A dangerous complication of RAF is atrioesophageal fistula (AEF), which predominantly manifests neurologically owing to food embolism. Because neurologists may not be familiar with AEF and the prognosis is dependent on a prompt diagnosis, awareness of AEF by the neurologist may play a crucial role.
Apathy is a common and significant problem in patients with dementia, regardless of its cause. Observations about frontosubcortical circuit syndromes indicate that apathy may have affective, behavioral, or cognitive manifestations.
Transverse myelitis is an autoimmune neurological disorder of the spinal cord that affects individuals of all age groups, including infants.
The progressive myoclonic epilepsies (PMEs) are a disparate group of syndromes whose common features include disabling myoclonus, progressive cognitive decline, and seizures, typically with a relentless deterioration over time.
Proteomic protein identification results need to be compared across laboratories and platforms, and thus a reliable method is needed to estimate false discovery rates. The target-decoy strategy is a platform-independent and thus a prime candidate for standardized reporting of data. In its current usage based on global population parameters, the method does not utilize individual peptide scores optimally.
One of the challenges in the analysis of microarray data is to integrate and compare the selected (e.g., differential) gene lists from multiple experiments for common or unique underlying biological themes. A common way to approach this problem is to extract common genes from these gene lists and then subject these genes to enrichment analysis to reveal the underlying biology. However, the capacity of this approach is largely restricted by the limited number of common genes shared by datasets from multiple experiments, which could be caused by the complexity of the biological system itself.
The investigation of molecular mechanisms underlying transcriptional regulation, particularly in embryonic stem cells, has received increasing attention and involves the systematic identification of target genes and the analysis of promoter co-occupancy. High-throughput approaches based on chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) have been widely used for this purpose. However, these approaches remain time-consuming, expensive, labor-intensive, involve multiple steps, and require complex statistical analysis. Advances in this field will greatly benefit from the development and use of simple, fast, sensitive and straightforward ChIP assay and analysis methodologies.
We explored the association of mammographic density, a breast cancer risk factor, with hormonal and proliferation markers in benign tissue from tumor blocks of pre-and postmenopausal breast cancer cases.
The diagnosis and treatment of cancer is a major life stress such that approximately 35% of patients experience persistent clinically significant distress and carers often experience even higher distress than patients. This paper presents the design of a two arm randomised controlled trial with patients and carers who have elevated psychological distress comparing minimal contact self management vs. an individualised tele-based cognitive behavioural intervention.
ACTRN12609000301268.
Teratomas are the commonest germ cell tumours and are most frequently found in the testes and ovary. Extragonadal teratomas are rare and mainly occur in midline structures. Uterine teratomas are extremely rare with only a few previous case reports, usually involving mature teratomas of the uterine cervix.
Extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma (EPSCC) is a rare cancer and few studies describe its epidemiology. Our objectives were to compare the incidence and survival of EPSCC in South East England with small cell carcinoma of the lung (SCLC), to determine the most common anatomical presenting sites for EPSCC and to compare survival in EPSCC by disease stage and site of diagnosis.
Twist is a transcription factor that plays an important role in proliferation and tumorigenesis. Twist is a nuclear protein that regulates a variety of cellular functions controlled by protein-protein interactions and gene transcription events. The focus of this study was to characterize putative nuclear localization signals (NLSs) 37RKRR40 and 73KRGKK77 in the human TWIST (H-TWIST) protein.
Triploid individuals often play a key role in speciation by hybridization. An understanding of the gamete types (ploidy and genomic content) and stability of hybrid populations with triploid individuals is therefore of importance for exploring the role of hybridization in evolution. The all-hybrid populations of the edible frog, Pelophylax esculentus, are unique in their composition and genetic dynamics: Diploid (genotype LR) and triploid (LLR and LRR) hybrids depend on each other's different gamete contributions for successful reproduction and maintenance of the populations, as the parental genotypes P. lessonae (LL) and P. ridibundus (RR) are absent among adults. This study provides data and interpretations on gamete types and sex determination that are essential for understanding the function, evolutionary potential and threats of this intriguing system.
The seacoasts of the Japanese Arc are fringed by many gravel beaches owing to active tectonic uplift and intense denudation caused by heavy rainfall. These gravel beaches are inhabited by gobies of the genus Luciogobius that burrow into the gravel sediment and live interstitially. Although their habitat and morphology (e. g., reduced fins, elongated, scale-less body, and highly segmented vertebral column) are highly unusual among fishes, little is known on how their morphological evolution has facilitated the colonization of interstitial habitats and promoted extensive diversification. We conducted thorough sampling of Luciogobius and related species throughout Japan, and performed molecular phylogenetic analysis to explore the patterns of morphological evolution associated with gravel beach colonization.
Evidence of multiple genetic criteria of mate choice is accumulating in numerous taxa. In many species, females have been shown to pair with genetically dissimilar mates or with extra-pair partners that are more genetically compatible than their social mates, thereby increasing their offsprings' heterozygosity which often correlates with offspring fitness. While most studies have focused on genetically promiscuous species, few studies have addressed genetically monogamous species, in which mate choice tends to be mutual.
Gluten sensitive enteropathy (GSE) is an autoimmune enteropathy triggered by the ingestion of gluten-containing grains in susceptible individuals. Recurrent aphthous stomatitis (RAS) may be the sole manifestation of GSE. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of gluten sensitivity enteropathy (GSE) in a large group of patients with RAS and assess the efficacy of gluten free diet (GFD) on the improvement of aphthous lesions in those who were diagnosed with GSE.
Although high-throughput genotyping arrays have made whole-genome association studies (WGAS) feasible, only a small proportion of SNPs in the human genome are actually surveyed in such studies. In addition, various SNP arrays assay different sets of SNPs, which leads to challenges in comparing results and merging data for meta-analyses. Genome-wide imputation of untyped markers allows us to address these issues in a direct fashion.
The requirements for growth and survival of the intracellular pathogen Trypanosoma cruzi within mammalian host cells are poorly understood. Transcriptional profiling of the host cell response to infection serves as a rapid read-out for perturbation of host physiology that, in part, reflects adaptation to the infective process. Using Affymetrix oligonucleotide array analysis we identified common and disparate host cell responses triggered by T. cruzi infection of phenotypically diverse human cell types.
Advances in the high-throughput omic technologies have made it possible to profile cells in a large number of ways at the DNA, RNA, protein, chromosomal, functional, and pharmacological levels. A persistent problem is that some classes of molecular data are labeled with gene identifiers, others with transcript or protein identifiers, and still others with chromosomal locations. What has lagged behind is the ability to integrate the resulting data to uncover complex relationships and patterns. Those issues are reflected in full form by molecular profile data on the panel of 60 diverse human cancer cell lines (the NCI-60) used since 1990 by the U.S. National Cancer Institute to screen compounds for anticancer activity. To our knowledge, CellMiner is the first online database resource for integration of the diverse molecular types of NCI-60 and related meta data.
The Hessian fly (Mayetiola destructor) is an important insect pest of wheat. It has tractable genetics, polytene chromosomes, and a small genome (158 Mb). Investigation of the Hessian fly presents excellent opportunities to study plant-insect interactions and the molecular mechanisms underlying genome imprinting and chromosome elimination. A physical map is needed to improve the ability to perform both positional cloning and comparative genomic analyses with the fully sequenced genomes of other dipteran species.
Protein-DNA interactions are involved in many biological processes essential for cellular function. To understand the molecular mechanism of protein-DNA recognition, it is necessary to identify the DNA-binding residues in DNA-binding proteins. However, structural data are available for only a few hundreds of protein-DNA complexes. With the rapid accumulation of sequence data, it becomes an important but challenging task to accurately predict DNA-binding residues directly from amino acid sequence data.
Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) has always been an active area of research in Bioinformatics. MSA is mainly focused on discovering biologically meaningful relationships among different sequences or proteins in order to investigate the underlying main characteristics/functions. This information is also used to generate phylogenetic trees.
The steadily increasing number of prokaryotic genomes has accelerated the study of genome evolution; in particular, the availability of sets of genomes from closely related bacteria has facilitated the exploration of the mechanisms underlying genome plasticity. The family Vibrionaceae is found in the Gammaproteobacteria and is abundant in aquatic environments. Taxa from the family Vibrionaceae are diversified in their life styles; some species are free living, others are symbiotic, and others are human pathogens. This diversity makes this family a useful set of model organisms for studying bacterial evolution. This evolution is driven by several forces, among them gene duplication and lateral gene transfer, which are believed to provide raw material for functional redundancy and novelty. The resultant gene copy increase in one genome is then detected as lineage-specific expansion (LSE).
Intrinsically disordered proteins lack stable structure under physiological conditions, yet carry out many crucial biological functions, especially functions associated with regulation, recognition, signaling and control. Recently, human genetic diseases and related genes were organized into a bipartite graph (Goh KI, Cusick ME, Valle D, Childs B, Vidal M, et al. (2007) The human disease network. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 104: 8685-8690). This diseasome network revealed several significant features such as the common genetic origin of many diseases.
Knowledge of protein-DNA interactions at the structural-level can provide insights into the mechanisms of protein-DNA recognition and gene regulation. Although over 1400 protein-DNA complex structures have been deposited into Protein Data Bank (PDB), the structural details of protein-DNA interactions are generally not available. In addition, current approaches to comparison of protein-DNA complexes are mainly based on protein sequence similarity while the DNA sequences are not taken into account. With the number of experimentally-determined protein-DNA complex structures increasing, there is a need for an automatic program to analyze the protein-DNA complex structures and to provide comprehensive structural information for the benefit of the whole research community.
How gene duplication has influenced the evolution of gene networks is one of the core problems in evolution. Current duplication-divergence theories generally suggested that genes on the periphery of the networks were preferentially retained after gene duplication. However, previous studies were mostly based on gene networks in invertebrate species, and they had the inherent shortcoming of not being able to provide information on how the duplication-divergence process proceeded along the time axis during major speciation events.
Inferring a gene regulatory network (GRN) from high throughput biological data is often an under-determined problem and is a challenging task due to the following reasons: (1) thousands of genes are involved in one living cell; (2) complex dynamic and nonlinear relationships exist among genes; (3) a substantial amount of noise is involved in the data, and (4) the typical small sample size is very small compared to the number of genes. We hypothesize we can enhance our understanding of gene interactions in important biological processes (differentiation, cell cycle, and development, etc) and improve the inference accuracy of a GRN by (1) incorporating prior biological knowledge into the inference scheme, (2) integrating multiple biological data sources, and (3) decomposing the inference problem into smaller network modules.
Human protein-protein interaction (PPIs) data are the foundation for understanding molecular signalling networks and the functional roles of biomolecules. Several human PPI databases have become available; however, comparisons of these datasets have suggested limited data coverage and poor data quality. Ongoing collection and integration of human PPIs from different sources, both experimentally and computationally, can enable disease-specific network biology modelling in translational bioinformatics studies.
DNA repair genes provide an important contribution towards the surveillance and repair of DNA damage. These genes produce a large network of interacting proteins whose mRNA expression is likely to be regulated by similar regulatory factors. Full characterization of promoters of DNA repair genes and the similarities among them will more fully elucidate the regulatory networks that activate or inhibit their expression. To address this goal, the authors introduce a technique to find regulatory genomic signatures, which represents a specific application of the genomic signature methodology to classify DNA sequences as putative functional elements within a single organism.
Affymetrix GeneChip high-density oligonucleotide arrays are widely used in biological and medical research because of production reproducibility, which facilitates the comparison of results between experiment runs. In order to obtain high-level classification and cluster analysis that can be trusted, it is important to perform various pre-processing steps on the probe-level data to control for variability in sample processing and array hybridization. Many proposed preprocessing methods are parametric, in that they assume that the background noise generated by microarray data is a random sample from a statistical distribution, typically a normal distribution. The quality of the final results depends on the validity of such assumptions.
Gene expression time series array data has become a useful resource for investigating gene functions and the interactions between genes. However, the gene expression arrays are always mixed with noise, and many nonlinear regulatory relationships have been omitted in many linear models. Because of those practical limitations, inference of gene regulatory model from expression data is still far from satisfactory.
In the classification of Mass Spectrometry (MS) proteomics data, peak detection, feature selection, and learning classifiers are critical to classification accuracy. To better understand which methods are more accurate when classifying data, some publicly available peak detection algorithms for Matrix assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-MS) data were recently compared; however, the issue of different feature selection methods and different classification models as they relate to classification performance has not been addressed. With the application of intelligent computing, much progress has been made in the development of feature selection methods and learning classifiers for the analysis of high-throughput biological data. The main objective of this paper is to compare the methods of feature selection and different learning classifiers when applied to MALDI-MS data and to provide a subsequent reference for the analysis of MS proteomics data.
Human genes undergo various patterns of pre-mRNA splicing across different tissues. Such variation is primarily regulated by trans-acting factors that bind on exonic and intronic cis-acting RNA elements (CAEs). Here we report a computational method to mechanistically identify cis-acting RNA elements that contribute to the tissue-specific alternative splicing pattern. This method is an extension of our previous model, SplicingModeler, which predicts the significant CAEs that contribute to the splicing differences between two tissues. In this study, we introduce tissue-specific functional levels estimation step, which allows evaluating regulatory functions of predicted CAEs that are involved in more than two tissues.
Alternative transcript diversity manifests itself as a prime cause of complexity in higher eukaryotes. Recently, transcript diversity studies have suggested that 60-80% of human genes are alternatively spliced. We have used a splicing pattern approach for the bioinformatics analysis of Alternative Splicing (AS) in chicken, human and mouse. Exons involved in splicing are subdivided into distinct and variant exons, based on the prevalence of the exons across the transcripts. Four possible permutations of these two different groups of exons were categorised as class I (distinct-variant), class II (distinct-variant), class III (variant-distinct) and class IV (variant-variant). This classification quantifies the variation in transcript diversity in the three species.
The human genome has been extensively annotated with Gene Ontology for biological functions, but minimally computationally annotated for diseases.
Intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) and intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) lack stable tertiary and/or secondary structure yet fulfills key biological functions. The recent recognition of IDPs and IDRs is leading to an entire field aimed at their systematic structural characterization and at determination of their mechanisms of action. Bioinformatics studies showed that IDPs and IDRs are highly abundant in different proteomes and carry out mostly regulatory functions related to molecular recognition and signal transduction. These activities complement the functions of structured proteins. IDPs and IDRs were shown to participate in both one-to-many and many-to-one signaling. Alternative splicing and posttranslational modifications are frequently used to tune the IDP functionality. Several individual IDPs were shown to be associated with human diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, amyloidoses, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and others. This raises questions regarding the involvement of IDPs and IDRs in various diseases.
One of the most challenging tasks in the post-genomic era is to reconstruct the transcriptional regulatory networks. The goal is to reveal, for each gene that responds to a certain biological event, which transcription factors affect its expression, and how a set of transcription factors coordinate to accomplish temporal and spatial specific regulations.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a cellular mechanism in which a short/small double stranded RNA induces the degradation of its sequence specific target mRNA, leading to specific gene silencing. Since its discovery, RNAi has become a powerful biological technique for gene function studies and drug discovery. The very first requirement of applying RNAi is to design functional small interfering RNA (siRNA) that can uniquely induce the degradation of the targeted mRNA. It has been shown that many functional synthetic siRNAs share some common characteristics, such as GC content limitation and free energy preferences at both terminals, etc.
Cognitive function is a key determinant of independence and quality of life among older adults. Compared to adults in England, US adults have a greater prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors and disease that may lead to poorer cognitive function. We compared cognitive performance of older adults in the US and England, and sought to identify sociodemographic and medical factors associated with differences in cognitive function between the two countries.
Depression and elevated depression symptoms are more prevalent in patients with type 2 diabetes than in those without diabetes and are associated with adverse health outcomes and increased total healthcare utilization. This suggests that more effective depression treatment might not only improve health outcome, but also reduce costs. However, there is a lack of evidence on (cost-) effectiveness of treatment options for minor and mild-major depression in patients with type 2 diabetes. In this paper we describe the design and methods of the economic evaluation, which will be conducted alongside the MIND-DIA trial (Cognitive behaviour therapy in elderly type 2 diabetes patients with minor or mild-major depression). The objective of the economic evaluation (MIND-DIA CEA) is to examine incremental cost-effectiveness of a diabetes specific cognitive behaviour group therapy (CBT) as compared to intensified treatment as usual (TAU) and to a guided self-help group intervention (SH).
The MIND-DIA study has been registered at the Current Controlled Trials Register (ISRCTN58007098).
Post-operative pulmonary infection often appears to result from aspiration of pathogens colonizing the oral cavity. It was hypothesized that impaired periodontal status and pathogenic oral bacteria significantly contribute to development of aspiration pneumonia following neurosurgical operations. Further, the prophylactic effects of a single dose preoperative cefazolin on the oral bacteria were investigated.
The current project undertook a province-wide survey and environmental scan of educational opportunities available to future health care providers on the topic of intimate partner violence (IPV) against women.
Mutation in SPINK5 causes Netherton syndrome, a rare recessive skin disease that is accompanied by severe atopic manifestations including atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, asthma, high serum IgE and hypereosinophilia. Recently, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of the SPINK5 was shown to be significantly associated with atopy, atopic dermatitis, asthma, and total serum IgE. In order to determine the role of the SPINK5 in the development of asthma, a case-control study including 669 asthma patients and 711 healthy controls in Han Chinese was conducted.
The presence of MLL rearrangements in acute leukemia results in a complex number of biological modifications that still remain largely unexplained. Armstrong et al. proposed MLL rearrangement positive ALL as a distinct subgroup, separated from acute lymphoblastic (ALL) and myeloblastic leukemia (AML), with a specific gene expression profile. Here we show that MLL, from both ALL and AML origin, share a signature identified by a small set of genes suggesting a common genetic disregulation that could be at the basis of mixed lineage leukemia in both phenotypes.
Until now there is a lack of carefully controlled studies with conventional MR imaging performed exclusively in concussion with short lasting loss of consciousness (LOC).
Data protection is important for all information systems that deal with human-subjects data. Grid-based systems--such as the cancer Biomedical Informatics Grid (caBIG)--seek to develop new mechanisms to facilitate real-time federation of cancer-relevant data sources, including sources protected under a variety of regulatory laws, such as HIPAA and 21CFR11. These systems embody new models for data sharing, and hence pose new challenges to the regulatory community, and to those who would develop or adopt them. These challenges must be understood by both systems developers and system adopters. In this paper, we describe our work collecting policy statements, expectations, and requirements from regulatory decision makers at academic cancer centers in the United States. We use these statements to examine fundamental assumptions regarding data sharing using data federations and grid computing.
The gathering of feedback on doctors from patients after consultations is an important part of patient involvement and participation. This study first assesses the 23-item Patient Feedback Questionnaire (PFQ) designed by the Picker Institute, Europe, to determine whether these items form a single latent trait. Then, an Internet module with visual representation is developed to gather patient views about their doctors; this program then distributes the individualized results by email.
Recruitment and retention of patients and healthcare providers in randomised controlled trials (RCTs) is important in order to determine the effectiveness of interventions. However, failure to achieve recruitment targets is common and reasons why a particular recruitment strategy works for one study and not another remain unclear. We sought to describe a strategy used in a multicentre RCT in primary care, to report researchers' and participants' experiences of its implementation and to inform future strategies to maximise recruitment and retention.
ISRCTN24081411.
Assumptions underlying placebo controlled trials include that the placebo effect impacts on all study arms equally, and that treatment effects are additional to the placebo effect. However, these assumptions have recently been challenged, and different mechanisms may potentially be operating in the placebo and treatment arms. The objective of the current study was to explore the nature of placebo versus pharmacological effects by comparing predictors of the placebo response with predictors of the treatment response in a randomised, placebo-controlled trial of a phytotherapeutic combination for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. A substantial placebo response was observed but no significant difference in efficacy between the two arms.
International Clinical Trials Registry ISRCTN98972974.
Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV-1) gene expression is thought to shut off recombinant gene expression from HSV-1 vectors; however, in a helper virus-free HSV-1 vector system, a number of promoters support only short-term expression. These results raise the paradox that recombinant gene expression remains short-term even in the absence of almost all (approximately 99%) of the HSV-1 genome, HSV-1 genes, and HSV-1 gene expression. To resolve this paradox, we hypothesized that specific proteins in the HSV-1 virus particle shut off recombinant gene expression. In two earlier studies, we examined the effects on recombinant gene expression of packaging vectors using specific mutated HSV-1 proteins. We found that vectors packaged using mutated UL13 (a protein kinase), or VP16, or UL46 and/or UL47 (components of the VP16 transcriptional complex) supported improved long-term expression, and vectors packaged using mutated UL46 and/or UL47 also supported improved gene transfer (numbers of cells at 4 days). These results suggested the hypothesis that specific proteins in the HSV-1 particle act by multiple pathways to reduce recombinant gene expression. To test this hypothesis, we examined combinations of mutated proteins that included both UL13 and specific components of the VP16 transcriptional complex.
There is little scientific evidence to support the usual practice of providing outpatient rehabilitation to patients undergoing total knee replacement surgery (TKR) immediately after discharge from the orthopaedic ward. It is hypothesised that the lack of clinical benefit is due to the low exercise intensity tolerated at this time, with patients still recovering from the effects of major orthopaedic surgery. The aim of the proposed clinical trial is to investigate the clinical and cost effectiveness of a novel rehabilitation strategy, consisting of an initial home exercise programme followed, approximately six weeks later, by higher intensity outpatient exercise classes.
ACTRN12609000054213.
To facilitate in the identification of gene products important in regulating renal glomerular structure and function, we have produced an annotated transcriptome database for normal human glomeruli using the SAGE approach.
Histamine-related drugs are commonly used in the treatment of vertigo and related vestibular disorders. The site of action of these drugs however has not been elucidated yet. Recent works on amphibians showed that histamine H3 receptor antagonists, e.g. betahistine, inhibit the afferent discharge recorded from the vestibular nerve. To assess the expression of H3 histamine receptors in vestibular neurons, we performed mRNA RT-PCR and immunofluorescence experiments in mouse Scarpa's ganglia.
Clinical guidance recommends early CHF palliative care intervention, but the magnitude of need is unknown and evidence-based referral criteria absent.This study aimed to: 1) Measure point prevalence of inpatients appropriate for palliative care. 2) Identify patient characteristics associated with palliative care appropriateness. 3) Propose evidence-based clinical referral criteria.
The Cochrane Neonatal Review Group (CNRG) has achieved a lot with limited resources in producing high quality systematic reviews to assist clinicians in evidence-based decision-making. A formal assessment of published CNRG systematic reviews has not been undertaken; we sought to provide a comprehensive assessment of the quality of systematic reviews (both methodologic and reporting quality) published in CNRG.
Next-generation transgenic plants will require a more precise regulation of transgene expression, preferably under the control of native promoters. A genome-wide T-DNA tagging strategy was therefore performed for the identification and characterization of novel banana promoters. Embryogenic cell suspensions of a plantain-type banana were transformed with a promoterless, codon-optimized luciferase (luc+) gene and low temperature-responsive luciferase activation was monitored in real time.
Years of Life Lost (YLL) is one of the methods used to estimate the duration of time lost due to premature death. While previous studies of disease burden have been reported using YLL, there have been no studies investigating YLL of Yi people in rural China. Yunnan Province ranks first in terms of Yi people in China. This paper uses YLL to estimate the disease burden of Yi people in Shilin county of Yunnan Province. This study aims to address the differentials about YLL between Yi people and Han people for providing useful information for health planning.
Infection with genital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) is the most common notifiable sexually transmitted infection (STI) in Sweden. A mutated Chlamydia, nvCT, has contributed to the increase. The occurrence of repeat infections is not investigated in Sweden. The current paper presents the study protocol for the first Swedish clinical investigation of repeat Chlamydial infection. The concern of the study is whether a Chlamydia infection at inclusion indicates an increased risk for Chlamydia at follow-up after 6-8 months, gender-specific risk factors for and clinical presentation of repeat infections.
The main objective of this study is to measure the relationship between morbidity, direct health care costs and the degree of clinical effectiveness (resolution) of health centres and health professionals by the retrospective application of Adjusted Clinical Groups in a Spanish population setting. The secondary objectives are to determine the factors determining inadequate correlations and the opinion of health professionals on these instruments.
Evidence from Western countries indicates that there are fundamental discrepancies between self-perceived illness of immigrants and the provision of health care, according to the Western bio-medical health service model. These need to be understood in the planning and implementation stages of public health care programs for new immigrants. The objectives of the present study were to investigate self-perceived versus clinically diagnosed dental and periodontal health status among immigrants from Ethiopia.
Many children are reported to have insufficient physical activity (PA) placing them at greater risk of poor health outcomes. Participating in sedentary activities such as playing electronic games is widely believed to contribute to less PA. However there is no experimental evidence that playing electronic games reduces PA. There is also no evidence regarding the effect of different types of electronic games (traditional sedentary electronic games versus new active input electronic games) on PA. Further, there is a poor understanding about how characteristics of children may moderate the impact of electronic game access on PA and about what leisure activities are displaced when children play electronic games. Given that many children play electronic games, a better understanding of the effect of electronic game use on PA is critical to inform child health policy and intervention.
This trial is registered in the Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN 12609000279224).
N-(6-(4-chlorophenoxy)hexyl)-N'-cyano-N''-4-pyridyl guanidine) (CHS 828) is the first candidate drug from a novel group of anti-tumour agents - the pyridyl cyanoguanidines, shown to be potent compounds interfering with cellular metabolism (inhibition of nicotinamide phosphoribosyl transferase) and NF-kappaB signalling. Substituted cyanoguanidines are also found in anti-hypertensive agents such as the potassium channel opener pinacidil (N-cyano-N'-(4-pyridyl)-N''-(1,2,2-trimethylpropyl)guanidine) and histamine-II receptor antagonists (e.g. cimetidine, N-cyano-N'-methyl-N''-[2-[[(5-methylimidazol-4-yl]methyl]thio]ethyl)guanidine). In animal studies, CHS 828 has shown very promising activity, and phase I and II studies resulted in further development of a with a water soluble prodrug.
Although thyroid disorders are present in approximately 3% of pregnant women, little is known about the association between maternal thyroid disease and birth defects.
Neural tube defects are multifactorial malformations involving both environmental exposures, such as maternal nutrition, and genetic factors. Aberrant expression of the platelet-derived growth factor alpha-receptor (PDGFRA) gene has been implicated in neural-tube-defect etiology in both mice and humans.
The possible association between maternal appendicitis/appendectomy during pregnancy and congenital abnormalities in the offspring was studied.
Defects of the pelvic nerve innervation of levator ani muscle are associated with poor postoperative anorectal function in patients with anorectal malformation (ARM). We have previously shown deficient development of motoneurons innervating the levator ani muscle in rats with ARM. In this study we investigate whether there is a deficiency in the development of sensory neurons that innervate the levator ani muscle in rats with ARM.
A variety of drugs, environmental chemicals, and physical agents induce a common limb malformation in the offspring of pregnant mice exposed on day 9 of gestation. This malformation, postaxial, right-sided forelimb ectrodactyly, is thought to arise via an alteration of hedgehog signaling.
Corrosion casting and immunohistochemical staining with anti-alpha smooth muscle actin and anti-CD34 was utilized to demonstrate the capillary plexus and venous system in control and malformed mouse hearts.
We used data from the multisite National Birth Defects Prevention Study for expected delivery dates from October 1997 through 2003, to determine whether the increased risk in anencephaly and spina bifida (neural tube defects (NTDs)) in Hispanics was explained by selected sociodemographic, acculturation, and other maternal characteristics.
Azathioprine (AZA) is used during pregnancy by women with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), other autoimmune disorders, malignancy, and organ transplantation. Previous studies have demonstrated potential risks.
Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) may cause acute lung injury leading to increased morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery. Preconditioning by inhaled carbon monoxide reduces pulmonary inflammation during CPB. We hypothesized that inhaled carbon monoxide mediates its anti-inflammatory and cytoprotective effects during CPB via induction of pulmonary heat shock proteins (Hsps).
Intravenous lidocaine infusion has been shown to affect postoperative pain intensity. This present study was performed to assess the effect of intra- and postoperative lidocaine infusion on postoperative functional walking capacity, as a measure of surgical recovery.
Intraperitoneal insufflation of carbon dioxide (CO2) may promote collapse of dependent lung regions. The present study was undertaken to study the effects of CO2-pneumoperitoneum (CO2-PP) on atelectasis formation, arterial oxygenation, and arterial to end-tidal PCO2-gradient (Pa-E'(CO2)).
When compared with the Classic laryngeal mask airway (cLMA), the recently introduced ProSeal laryngeal mask airway (PLMA) has modified features to produce higher airway seal pressures and enable ventilation in circumstances where the cLMA might fail. The first neonatal size 1 PLMA recently became available. This study was designed to compare the effectiveness of the size 1 cLMA and PLMA during positive pressure ventilation in anesthetized neonates and infants.
Tissue-specific monoallelic silencing of the RYR1 gene has been proposed as an explanation for variable penetrance of dominant RYR1 mutations in malignant hyperthermia (MH). We examined the hypothesis that monoallelic silencing could explain the inheritance of an MH discordant phenotype in some instances.
Surgical trauma causes stress and inflammatory reactions with elevated serum free fatty acids (FFA) and glucose levels characteristic of intraoperative insulin resistance. Our aim was to compare microdialysis findings with those using the classical organ balance technique and to test the clinical feasibility of microdialysis during cardiac surgery.
The pulse pressure variation (PPV) index has been shown to be a reliable predictor of fluid responsiveness (FR) in a variety of clinical settings. However, it has not been formally evaluated in the setting of orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT).
Adherence to guidelines to avoid complications associated with mechanical ventilation is often incomplete. The goal of this study was to assess whether staff training in pre-defined interventions (bundle) improves the quality of care in mechanically ventilated patients.
Previous studies indicate that avoiding neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) may be a risk factor for difficult tracheal intubation (DTI). We investigated whether avoiding NMBA was associated with DTI.
Remifentanil has been implicated as causing intraoperative bradyarrhythmias, but little information is available regarding its cardiac electrophysiological effects. Thus, we evaluated the cardiac electrophysiological properties before and after remifentanil in a closed-chest porcine model.
Uncalibrated arterial waveform analysis (FloTrac/Vigileo) uses standard arterial access to determine cardiac output (CO). Calculations are based on arterial waveform characteristics in combination with patient characteristic data to estimate individual arterial compliance. It has been shown that obesity is associated with altered arterial compliance independently of other risk factors. We conducted this study to assess the validity of measuring CO by the FloTrac/Vigileo device in obese patients undergoing cardiac surgery in comparison with bolus thermodilution technique.
Accurate measurement of core temperature is a standard component of perioperative and intensive care patient management. However, core temperature measurements are difficult to obtain in awake patients. A new non-invasive thermometer has been developed, combining two sensors separated by a known thermal resistance ('double-sensor' thermometer). We thus evaluated the accuracy of the double-sensor thermometer compared with a distal oesophageal thermometer to determine if the double-sensor thermometer is a suitable substitute.
To investigate preoperative levels of stress and anxiety in day-care patients and inpatients undergoing surgical interventions.
The haemodynamic effects of oxytocin 5 u have been described previously, but still some authors attribute these effects to the delivery itself. We studied the haemodynamic effects of two repeated doses of oxytocin i.v. in 20 healthy women during spinal anaesthesia for Caesarean delivery.
We compared the propofol requirements and recovery times when either the bispectral index (BIS) monitor or the cerebral state monitor (CSM) is used to guide propofol anaesthesia.
The aim of this investigation was to assess the incidence of elevated N-terminal fragment of pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and its relation to outcome defined as perioperative adverse cardiac events and all-cause mortality in high-risk patients undergoing non-elective surgery for hip fracture.
We previously described a convection warming technique (Cassey J, Armstrong P, Smith GE, Farrell PT. Paediatr Anaesth 2006; 16: 654-62). This study further analyses the children in that original study with three aims: (i) to investigate factors purported to influence children's heating rates, (ii) to describe the most effective usage of this warming technique, and (iii) to understand better the physiology of convection warming.
Existing indices of pulmonary oxygenation vary misleadingly with external factors such as inspired oxygen fraction (FI(O2)), arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2), and haemoglobin (Hb). Previous work suggested that some indices may be acceptably useful in particular scenarios such as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) or where FI(O2)&gt;60%. However, it is not possible to identify such scenarios in most clinical contexts; therefore we aimed to examine the induced variability of existing indices in a population of patients with a variety of lung defects.
Caudal block is a common technique for paediatric analgesia but with the disadvantage of short duration of action after single injection. Caudal dexmedetomidine and clonidine could offer significant analgesic benefits. We compared the analgesic effects and side-effects of dexmedetomidine and clonidine added to bupivacaine in paediatric patients undergoing lower abdominal surgeries.
Dexmedetomidine (DEX), a selective agonist of alpha2-adrenergic receptors, is recognized to facilitate analgesia and anaesthesia in humans. Despite the potential for wide use, its effects on ion currents and membrane potential in neurones remain largely unclear.
The Canadian Emergency Department Triage and Acuity Scale (CTAS) is a 5-level triage tool used to determine the priority by which patients should be treated in Canadian emergency departments (EDs). To determine emergency physician (EP) workload and staffing needs, many hospitals in Ontario use a case-mix formula based solely on patient volume at each triage level. The purpose of our study was to describe the distribution of EP time by activity during a shift in order to estimate the amount of time required by an EP to assess and treat patients in each triage category and to determine the variability in the distribution of CTAS scoring between hospital sites.
Generic atypical antipsychotics in tablet form differ in name, appearance and packaging from the innovator brand antipsychotics. These differences might cause anxiety, confusion and misperceptions in some ambulant patients with psychoses/schizophrenia, especially if the brand atypical antipsychotic is substituted in the pharmacy without the acknowledgement of the patient and treating psychiatrist. Furthermore, generic substitution of branded oral atypical antipsychotics in the pharmacy might cause nonadherence and potentially lead to suboptimal treatment outcomes if patients perceive the medicines to be clinically different.
The Canadian Emergency Department Triage and Acuity Scale (CTAS) was implemented in 1999. The CTAS aims to more accurately define patients' needs for timely care and provide operating objectives to standardize this care. These objectives are not being met across Ontario. The purpose of this study was to determine if the CTAS benchmarks were being met at a rural emergency department (ED).
CD26 is a type II, cell surface glycoprotein known as dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP) IV. Previous studies have revealed CD26 expression in T cell leukemia/lymphoma and malignant mesothelioma, and an inhibitory effect of anti-CD26 monoclonal antibody (mAb) against the growth of CD26+ cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. The function of CD26 in tumor development is unknown and the machinery with which the CD26 mAb induces its anti-tumor effect remains uncharacterized.
High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) elevation is associated with poor clinical outcome in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). However, the prognostic value of preprocedural hs-CRP elevation before coronary stent implantation remains debated especially regarding restenosis and target vessel revascularization (TVR). Furthermore, whether hs-CRP elevation may predict stent thrombosis (ST) is unknown.
The paclitaxel drug-eluting stent (Taxus, Boston Scientific) is FDA approved for treatment of coronary artery disease in simple, noncomplex coronary lesions. In this registry, we sought to investigate the procedural success and long-term outcomes of patients receiving the Taxus stent in the setting of acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) in a busy single-center interventional program.
In patients receiving primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), bivalirudin with provisional glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors has been demonstrated to be noninferior to heparin plus systematic GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in preventing recurrent ischemic events with improved safety in terms of bleeding. However, no study has been performed comparing head-to-head bivalirudin with heparin without GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor infusion in STEMI patients.
Recurrent disease (restenosis) after endovascular treatment of the superficial femoral artery (SFA) remains a major problem. We evaluated the efficacy of beta-endovascular brachytherapy using the CORONA centering catheter in patients with SFA restenosis in a single-arm Phase II trial.
Coronary stent fracture is an underrecognized entity but has been reported more frequently in the drug-eluting stent (DES) era. Nevertheless, the clinical implications of coronary stent fracture remain unclear.
In vitro expansion and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) rely on specific environmental conditions, and investigations have demonstrated that one crucial factor is oxygen environment.
Preliminary studies investigated advanced scaffold design and tissue engineering approaches towards restoring congruent articulating surfaces in small joints.
The predictive value of the preoperative hemoglobin value after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) has not been well established. We studied how the preoperative hemoglobin level affects the survival of patients after CABG. Late mortality was compared with that of a general population.
Depression predicts prognosis in many cardiac conditions, including congestive heart failure (CHF). Despite heightened cardiac risk in patients with comorbid atrial fibrillation (AF) and CHF, depression has not been studied in this group. This substudy, from the AF-CHF Trial of rate- versus rhythm-control strategies, investigated whether depression predicts long-term cardiovascular mortality in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction &lt;or=35%, CHF symptoms, and AF history who receive optimal medical care.
Lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) catalyzes the formation of plasma cholesteryl ester, plays a key role in high-density lipoprotein metabolism, and has been believed to be critical in the process of reverse cholesterol transport (RCT).
Monocytes are cellular components of wound repair, arteriogenesis, and atherogenesis. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A and placental growth factor recruit monocytes to sites of arteriogenesis via stimulation of VEGF receptor-1 (VEGFR-1). The chemotactic response of monocytes to VEGF-A is attenuated in individuals with diabetes mellitus (DM). This VEGF resistance correlates with impaired collateral growth. The aim of this study is to elucidate the molecular basis of VEGF resistance and impaired monocyte response in DM.
Although angina is often caused by atherosclerotic obstruction of the coronary arteries, patients with similar amounts of myocardial ischemia may vary widely in their symptoms. We sought to compare clinical and psychosocial characteristics associated with more frequent angina after adjusting for the amount of inducible ischemia.
Two principal mechanisms are thought to be responsible for Brugada syndrome (BS): (1) right ventricular (RV) conduction delay and (2) RV subepicardial action potential shortening. This in vivo high-density mapping study evaluated the conduction and repolarization properties of the RV in BS subjects.
Although both sirolimus (CYPHER) and paclitaxel (TAXUS) drug-eluting stents have demonstrated efficacy and safety in clinical trials, human autopsy data have raised concerns about long-term healing and the potential for local inflammatory reactions.
The aim of this work is to develop a more complete qualitative and quantitative understanding of the in vivo histology of the human bulbar conjunctiva.
The aim of this work was to image trabeculectomy blebs using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT).
The incidence of dacryocystorhinostomy surgery among Pacific People is greater than would be expected given their proportion in the population. Some have suggested that racial and sex differences in facial skull dimensions produce narrower nasolacrimal canals and therefore differences in the incidence of primary acquired nasolacrimal duct obstruction (PANDO). We measured the minimum diameter of the canal in those not known to have PANDO.
To investigate the prevalence and angiographic appearances of polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) masquerading as age-related peripapillary subretinal neovascular membranes (PSRNVM).
The purpose of this paper is to evaluate changes of the vitreoretinal interface in fellow eyes of eyes with a macular hole and to study early stages of macular hole formation by spectral optical coherence tomography (SOCT).
Submacular haemorrhage may occur following intravitreal bevacizumab injection for large occult choroidal neovascularization (CNV) in age-related macular degeneration (AMD). We report the occurrence of submacular haemorrhage following intravitreal ranibizumab compared with intravitreal bevacizumab for large occult CNV in AMD.
To determine the outcome following injections of triamcinolone acetate (IVTA) in the treatment of persistent cystoid macular oedema (CMO) in quiescent, non-infectious uveitis.
The use of dispersive ophthalmic viscosurgical devices (OVDs) has been shown to provide significant protection against air bubble damage to the corneal endothelium when compared with cohesive OVDs. We compared the corneal endothelial protective effects of a new dispersive OVD, Healon-D, with Viscoat.
We aimed to evaluate the ascorbic acid concentration in secondary aqueous humour (AH) from glaucomatous patients and to compare it with primary AH from primary open-angle glaucoma patients and non-glaucomatous patients.
Accessory levator muscle slips may be associated with congenital eyelid retraction or blepharoptosis. Nevertheless, congenital retraction of the upper eyelid is a poorly defined entity about which little is known. Because of the clinical importance of the accessory levator muscle slip of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle, this study aimed to describe the morphological appearance of this variation in human adult orbits.
Transplant glomerulopathy (TG) is involved in the criteria of chronic active antibody-mediated rejection (c-AMR) in Banff 07 classification. In this report, we discuss the clinico-pathological analysis of TG cases after renal transplantation, and analysis of whether all TG cases are applied to c-AMR.
When a patient who had renal replacement therapy becomes older, an elder donor candidate may be considered as a potential donor for living-related transplantation. Elder donor candidate might have pre-existing disease including mild renal dysfunction, such as proteinuria. Marginally appropriate donors might be considered for renal graft because of the shortage of donors. A successful outcome after kidney transplantation from a living-related donor diagnosed as membranous nephropathy is reported.
Hospitalized patients encounter stressors that impact their experience and recovery. There is a need for theoretically-based, empirically supported nursing interventions to create a therapeutic and healing environment that decrease stress and improve patients' experiences.
During Mohs surgery, there are instances in which residual tumor cells may be difficult to detect, thereby increasing the risk of incomplete excision and tumor recurrence. It is possible to employ immunohistochemical techniques as an adjunct to routine hematoxylin and eosin staining to aid in ensuring negative margins.
Midface rejuvenation is a minimally invasive procedure designed to correct early ptosis of the cheeks and deepening nasolabial folds. Implementation of this technique requires a detailed understanding of the anatomy of this region in addition to recognizing the vectors of change that occur over time as one matures. Finally, aesthetic competence and requisite surgical skills are required to restore the midface in a minimally invasive fashion.
Patient satisfaction is an important aspect of patient-centered care but has not been systematically studied after treatment of nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC), the most prevalent cancer.
The use of bisected hair follicles in hair transplantation has been previously reported, but the capacity of each half to regenerate the entire hair has not been clarified.
A large number of commercial antiwrinkle and antiaging compounds are available to consumers for rejuvenation of facial skin ravaged by age or solar radiation. Experimental data on the histological effects of these commercial products in laboratory models are sparse.
Becker's nevus (BN) can be a distressing cosmetic handicap for patients and a treatment challenge for physicians. Various treatment modalities have been used, but repigmentation commonly occurs after treatment.
The dermis is composed primarily of type I (soft) and type III (rigid scar-like) collagen. Collagen degradation is considered the primary cause of skin aging. Studies have proved the efficacy of infrared irradiation on collagen stimulation but have not investigated the differential long-term effects of infrared irradiation on type I and type III collagen.
Many methods have been proposed for the treatment of acne scars, with variable cosmetic results. Nonablative skin resurfacing is one method that has been proposed. Because of a need for more noticeable clinical improvements, the ablative fractional laser was recently introduced.
Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is characterized by gastrointestinal hamartomatous polyps and visible mucocutaneous lentigines distributed in the oral and anal mucosa, hands, face, and nails. Although there are many reports regarding successful treatment of intestinal polyps of PJS, there is little information regarding treatment of lentigines. Q-switched lasers are the preferred method of treatment for benign melanocytic lesions.
There is a lack of randomized split-face studies investigating treatments for dermatosis papulosa nigra (DPN) in dark skin.
Green tea polyphenols (GTPs) have significant antioxidant and antiinflammatory activities, and prior short-term studies suggest that these compounds may improve photoaging skin.
Dense inflammation can obscure nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) on frozen sections, prompting removal of additional layers to ensure negative margins. Cytokeratin (CK) immunostaining in Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) has been examined and found to be useful but is limited by lengthy 1-hour processing.
Fasting hypertriglyceridaemia has been reported to occur commonly in cigarette smokers and is thought to increase cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in these individuals. More recently, it has been suggested that an increase in non-fasting triglycerides, rather than fasting hypertriglyceridaemia, is an independent CVD risk factor.
There is an increasing incidence of anaemia in diabetes despite the absence of significant renal impairment.
It is well known that diabetes mellitus (DM) is a crucial risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD). The present study aimed to investigate angiographic profiles of the coronary arteries in diabetic CAD patients in comparison with nondiabetics.
We carried out an educational strategy to increase physician adherence to 8 recommendations for inpatient evaluation and management of diabetes endorsed by the American Diabetes Association.
Our aim is to review the effectiveness of EBM tools available to primary care professionals to improve the quality of Type 2 diabetes disease management.
ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00280085.
Because of the poor sensitivity of urinary cytological findings for the diagnosis of especially low grade urinary bladder carcinoma, new molecular diagnostic methods have been proposed. We decided to verify the ImmunoCyt/uCyt+ (UCyt+) test and cytology combination and cytokeratin 20 (CK20) and cytology combination in urine as possible diagnostic and monitoring tool for bladder cancer.
Human paraoxonase-1 (PON1) inhibits LDL-oxidation and atherogenesis, and possesses lactonase activity. Decreased PON1 activity was found in hemodialyzed and renal transplanted patients. Cystatin C plays a protective role in atherosclerosis, and is a new, sensitive marker of renal function. The relationship between these two markers in renal failure has not been investigated.
Accurate triage of emergency department (ED) patients presenting with chest pain is a primary goal of the ED physician. In addition to standard clinical history and examination, a hand-held echocardiogram (HHE) may aid the emergency physician in making correct decisions. We tested the hypothesis that an HHE performed and interpreted by a cardiology fellow could help risk-stratify patients presenting to the ED with chest pain.
Myocardial velocities can be measured with both pulsed-wave tissue Doppler (PWTD) and color tissue Doppler (CTD) echocardiography. We aimed to (A) to explore which of the two methods better approximates true tissue motion and (B) to examine the agreement and the reproducibility of the two methods in a routine clinical setting.
Tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) parameters of peak myocardial velocities (S', E', and A') has been employed to assess the regional left ventricular myocardial function. The global function index (GFI) derived from TDI has been recently employed to distinguish the different etiologies of left ventricular hypertrophy.
There is a paucity of information concerning left ventricular (LV) dyssynchrony assessment by real time three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography (RT3DE) versus tissue Doppler imaging (TDI).
The synchrony of the pacing heart can be affected by the right ventricular (RV) pacing site and is crucial to cardiac function in pacemaker recipients. We evaluated the acute changes in cardiac synchrony according to the RV pacing sites in normal systolic functioning subjects with normal QRS.
The aim of this study is to improve the diagnosis of congenital heart disease in conjoined twins using echocardiography.
The value of prostate-specific antigen velocity (PSAV) in screening for prostate cancer (PCa) and especially for clinically significant PCa is unclear.
It is assumed that angiotensin II (AngII) is significantly implicated in the pathogenesis of urinary dysfunction because of bladder outlet obstruction (BOO).
Metastin, the final peptide of the KiSS-1 gene, has been proposed to suppress cell motility.
Recent studies question the role of the prostate as the key factor in the pathogenesis of chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS).
Human detrusor smooth muscle cells (hBSMCs) are coupled by connexin 43 (Cx43)-positive gap junctions to form functional syncytia. Gap junctional communication likely is necessary for synchronised detrusor contractions and is supposed to be altered in voiding disturbances. Other authors have shown that the pleiotropic cytokine TGF-beta1 upregulates Cx43 expression in human aortic smooth muscle cells.
Some men with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) including overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms may benefit from antimuscarinic therapy, with or without an alpha-adrenergic antagonist.
Literature regarding both subjective and objective evaluations of erectile function following radical cystectomy is deficient.
Limited data on patterns of recurrence (local or metastatic) after salvage radical prostatectomy (SP) is available.
The prognostic significance of venous tumor thrombus extension in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a matter of many controversies in the current literature.
Currently two pretreatment prognostic models with limited accuracy (65-67%) can be used to predict survival in patients with localized renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
The presence of a tertiary Gleason grade (TGG) pattern in radical prostatectomy (RP) specimens has been described as associated with adverse pathology and a higher biochemical recurrence (BCR) rate after RP.
Quality-of-life outcomes are important in the choice of treatment strategy for men with localized prostate cancer.
The traditional belief that prostate cancer (PCa) growth is dependent on serum testosterone (T) level has been challenged by recent negative studies in noncastrated men.
Currently, the 2002 American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system of prostate cancer does not include any stratification of patients according to the number of positive nodes. However, node positive (N+) patients share heterogeneous outcomes according to the extent of lymph node invasion (LNI).
Renal tumor biopsies (RTBs) gained popularity in the evaluation of small renal tumors (SRTs) because imaging alone is insufficient to show the underlying aggressiveness of SRTs and more ablative therapies without definitive histology are available.
The ever-increasing number of radical prostatectomies entails an increasing number of patients suffering from postprostatectomy stress incontinence despite improved surgical techniques. We provide an overview of the current diagnosis and treatment of postprostatectomy stress incontinence.
The use of neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of muscle-invasive bladder cancer is still controversial.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) after radical prostatectomy (RP) has a significant negative impact on a patient's health-related quality of life. Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5-Is) have recently been utilized not only as a treatment of ED in this population but also as a preventive strategy in penile rehabilitation programs.
Knowledge of baseline factors that influence outcomes for men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) receiving medical therapy may help to improve outcomes and cost effectiveness.
The potential of a new continuous-wave (CW) 70-W, 2.013-microm thulium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet (Tm:YAG) laser for the endoscopic treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is investigated.
Current prostate cancer (PCa) follow-up guidelines do not account for the risk of disease relapse.
Although some mechanisms of habitat adaptation of conspecific populations have been recently elucidated, the evolution of female preference has rarely been addressed as a force driving habitat adaptation in natural settings. Habitat adaptation of fire salamanders (Salamandra salamandra), as found in Middle Europe (Germany), can be framed in an explicit phylogeographic framework that allows for the evolution of habitat adaptation between distinct populations to be traced. Typically, females of S. salamandra only deposit their larvae in small permanent streams. However, some populations of the western post-glacial recolonization lineage use small temporary ponds as larval habitats. Pond larvae display several habitat-specific adaptations that are absent in stream-adapted larvae. We conducted mate preference tests with females from three distinct German populations in order to determine the influence of habitat adaptation versus neutral genetic distance on female mate choice. Two populations that we tested belong to the western post-glacial recolonization group, but are adapted to either stream or pond habitats. The third population is adapted to streams but represents the eastern recolonization lineage.
The purpose of the current study was to validate the US English Patient Perception of Study Medication (PPSM) questionnaire, which measures patient satisfaction with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) treatment and was administered to men with BPH lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) enrolled in a multi-national clinical trial.
Kawasaki disease is an acute, self-limited vasculitis of unknown etiology. Coronary artery involvement is the predominant complication, ranging from no involvement to dilation through to aneurysm formation. We sought to determine trends over time and associated factors for normalized coronary artery dimensions for patients with acute KD.
There is accumulating evidence that transient exercise-induced ischemia triggers the release of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP). The aim of this study was to either confirm or refute a previous investigation suggesting that myocardial ischemia can reliably be detected by exercise-induced changes in BNP or NT-proBNP levels in selected patients.
Serum gamma-glutamyltransferase activity (GGT) has been documented as an independent cardiovascular risk factor. However, to-date its value has not been compared with C-reactive protein (CRP) and other indexes in a multimarker prognostic strategy in patients with coronary artery disease.
Evaluation of aortic valve stenosis is a major clinical application of echocardiography. The widely employed continuity equation requires determination of the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) area. We aimed at testing whether direct area measurement in a volume data set is superior to conventional calculation from the LVOT diameter.
Prolonged sympathetic activation is damaging to the heart. Recent findings suggest that norepinephrine (NE) may contribute to the apoptotic cardiac cell loss. This study investigated high doses NE apoptotic effect on cardiac fibroblasts (CF) culture and compared the anti-apoptotic effect of alpha and beta (selective and non-selective) adrenergic receptor antagonists.
If compared to two-dimensional echocardiography (2DE), myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) improves detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) during pharmacological stress, but data on MCE vs. 2DE during supine bicycle stress is limited. Although previous myocardial infarction (MI) influences sensitivity of 2DE, its effect on MCE has not been evaluated.
Fish oils have been widely reported as a useful supplement to reduce fasting blood triglyceride levels in individuals with hyperlipidemia. We performed an updated meta-analysis to quantitatively evaluate all the randomized trials of fish oils in hyperlipidemic subjects.
Gene expression can be differentially regulated by alternatively spliced transcription factors, providing a mechanism for precise control of diverse morphogenetic events. The paired-type homedomain transcription factor Prrxl1 (formerly known as Drg11) was described as a key regulator of the differentiation of the spinal cord neuronal circuit dedicated to the processing of nociceptive information. Here, we report the characterization of a Prrxl1 alternative splice variant that we termed Prrxl1-b.
In the general population, adiposity exhibits a J- or U-shaped relationship with mortality; however, in catabolic states this relationship is often inversely linear. We have recently documented an age-independent increase in overweight/obesity in the Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications Study (EDC) of type 1 diabetes (T1D). As intensified insulin therapy (IIT) may promote weight gain, the impact of weight gain in T1D is of importance. We therefore assessed the association of adiposity with mortality in 655 EDC participants during 20 years of follow-up.
Circulating soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) has been recently found to be associated negatively with insulin sensitivity.
The left atrial (LA) substrate plays an important role in the maintenance of atrial fibrillation (AF). However, little is known about the acute effect of circumferential pulmonary vein isolation (CPVI). This study was to investigate the acute change of LA activation, voltage and P wave in surface electrocardiogram (ECG) after CPVI.
This is a rare case of antidromic reciprocating tachycardia developing 8 years after successful catheter ablation.
Atrioesophageal fistula is an uncommon but often lethal complication of atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation. The purpose of our study was to prospectively investigate the incidence of esophageal ulcerations (ESUL) as well as the impact of energy settings, radiofrequency lesion sets, and direct visualization of the esophagus on esophageal wall injury.
Measuring the postpacing interval (PPI) and correcting for the tachycardia cycle length (TCL) is an important entrainment response (ER). However, it may be impossible to measure PPI due to electrical noise on the mapping catheter. To overcome this problem, 2 alternative methods for the assessment of ER have been proposed: N+1 difference (N+1 DIFF) and PPIR method. PPI-TCL difference (PPI-TCL) correlates very well with ER assessed by new methods, but the agreement with PPI-TCL was established only in relation to PPIR method. Moreover, it is not known which of these methods is superior in the assessment of ER.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is an established therapy for patients with severe heart failure and mechanical dyssynchrony. Response is only achieved in 60-70% of patients.
Amiodarone is commonly used for the treatment of ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias. Ectopic activity arising from the PV plays a prominent role in the development of atrial fibrillation (AF).
Defining whether retrograde ventriculoatrial (V-A) conduction is via the AV node (AVN) or an accessory pathway (AP) is important during ablation procedures for supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). With the introduction of ventricular extrastimuli (VEST), retrograde right bundle branch block (RBBB) may occur, prolonging the V-H interval, but only when AV node conduction is present. We hypothesized that when AP conduction was present, the V-A interval would increase less than the V-H interval, whereas with retrograde nodal conduction, the V-A interval would increase at least as much as the V-H interval.
There are no randomized controlled trial data that evaluate mortality and hospitalization rates in cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) recipients based on left ventricular (LV) lead location. We analyzed the event-driven outcomes of mortality and hospitalization as well as functional outcomes including Functional Class, Quality-of-Life, and 6-minute walk distance in 1,520 patients enrolled in the COMPANION study of CRT versus optimal medical therapy.
Frequent monomorphic premature ventricular contractions (PVC) and/or ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients with structurally normal heart usually arise from the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT). An animal model simulating RVOT tachycardia by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the sympathetic input to the proximal pulmonary artery (PA) has been previously described. The aim of this study was to similarly induce RVOT tachycardia in humans.
Few studies have described the clinical usefulness of heart rate turbulence (HRT), an autonomic predictor of mortality, in stratifying patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) at risk of cardiac mortality and arrhythmic events. We prospectively assessed the utility of HRT for risk stratification in patients with ischemic or nonischemic DCM.
In vitro studies and ambulatory ECG recordings from the MERLIN TIMI-36 clinical trial suggest that the novel antianginal agent ranolazine may have the potential to suppress atrial arrhythmias. However, there are no reports of effects of ranolazine on atrial electrophysiologic properties in large intact animals.
The rise in body mass index (BMI) during adulthood increases the risk for metabolic disorders, functional limitations and disability in old age. This twin study examined prospectively whether genetic and environmental influences on women's BMI also account for mobility 29 years later.
In Spain, hookworm was first recognised as a miners' disease, becoming the goal of one of the most successful interventions in public health from 1912 to 1931. Hookworm also played a part in the growing interest in rural health problems that peaked during the Republican period (1931-6). The aim of this study was to compare the rationale and content of public health interventions against rural hookworm in Spain before the Civil War (1936-9) with those of interventions after the war.
Depression is one of the most commonly encountered mental health problems during older adulthood. This study examines differences in depressive symptom trajectories among older Taiwanese adults across two birth cohorts (1920-1924 and 1925-1929), and explores the relationships between socioeconomic position (SEP) variables and symptom trajectories.
Little attention has been paid to how heat-related health effects vary with the micro-urban variation of outdoor temperatures. This study explored whether people located in micro-urban heat islands are at higher risk of mortality during hot summer days.
The aim was to compare cause-specific mortality, self-rated health (SRH) and risk factors in the French and German part of Switzerland and to discuss to what extent variations between these regions reflect differences between France and Germany.
Interventions to change health-related behaviours have potential to increase health inequalities.
Injuries are a major cause of ill health among children, with a social gradient in child injuries documented in many countries. The effects of maternal sociodemographic characteristics on injury mortality in Estonian infants and toddlers were investigated.
Analysis of change in health status using data from two waves can be examined either adjusted or unadjusted for baseline health status. The effect of socioeconomic position (SEP) on cognitive change was assessed using both these strategies and the implications of the analyses are discussed.
The association of socioeconomic position and cardiovascular disease risk factors in low- and middle-income countries has not been as consistent as that reported from high-income countries.
The objective of this study was to identify current patterns of international collaboration based on authorship of epidemiological articles.
Multidimensional impairment of older patients may influence the clinical outcome of acute or chronic diseases. Our purpose is to evaluate the usefulness of a multidimensional prognostic index (MPI) based on a comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) for predicting mortality risk in older patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
The objective of this study was to assess the relation between serum levels of retinol and other antioxidants and hearing impairment in Japanese older adults.
Identifying quantitative gait markers of falls in older adults may improve diagnostic assessments and suggest novel intervention targets.
The objective of this study was to examine the association between 25-hydroxyvitamin D, 25(OH)D, and cognitive function.
Because white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be linked to geriatric syndromes involving mobility, cognition, and affect, we postulated that involvement of areas critical to bladder control could influence urinary incontinence (UI).
The purpose of this prospective cohort study was to describe the clinimetric evaluation of four fall risk assessment tools (FRATs) recommended in best practice guidelines for use in residential aged care (RAC).
Biomechanical energy harvesting-generating electricity from people during daily activities-is a promising alternative to batteries for powering increasingly sophisticated portable devices. We recently developed a wearable knee-mounted energy harvesting device that generated electricity during human walking. In this methods-focused paper, we explain the physiological principles that guided our design process and present a detailed description of our device design with an emphasis on new analyses.
Despite remaining an important cause of posterior circulation stroke, the non-invasive diagnosis of vertebral artery origin (VAo) stenosis is problematic. We here examine peak systolic velocity (PSV) criteria for the diagnosis of VAo stenosis and assess if the PSV ratio at the origin to the distal segments improves diagnostic accuracy.
Intracranial artery stenosis is assumed to represent atherosclerotic plaque. Catheter cerebral arteriography shows that intracranial stenosis may progress, regress, or remain unchanged. It is counterintuitive that atherosclerotic plaque should spontaneously regress, raising questions about the composition of intracranial stenoses. Little is known about this disease entity in vivo. We provide the first demonstration of in vivo atherosclerotic plaque with intraplaque hemorrhage using intravascular ultrasound (IVUS).
There have been several epidemiologic studies on intra-oral salivary gland tumors in several countries, but little is known of these tumors in Thailand.
Oral carcinogenesis is a multistep process and requires accumulation and interplay of a series of molecular genetic events. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays an important role in signalling pathways that are initiated at sites of integrin-mediated cell adhesions and by growth factor receptors. Overexpression of FAK has been linked to oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). So, it is hypothesized that FAK expression might contribute to oral carcinogenesis.
The aim of this study was to determine the detection of cytokeratin (CK) mRNA in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cells and to evaluate the CK relevance for OSCC diagnosis in a brush biopsy test.
The events following triggering of antigen receptors and subsequent activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) need to be carefully controlled to prevent abnormal immune responses. BCL10 links the antigen receptor to NFkappaB. The aim of this study was to determine the expression pattern of BCL10 and NFkappaB in minor salivary gland infiltrates of patients with primary Sjgren's syndrome (pSS).
Oncocytic lesions, particularly frequent in the salivary glands, are characterized by cells with an atypical accumulation of mitochondria. This accumulation has been recognized as a compensatory mechanism to intrinsic functional defects of these organelles, resulting in energy production impairment and increased generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), including hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Peroxiredoxin I (Prx I) is a H(2)O(2) scavenging protein and the expression of its yeast homolog was reported to be influenced by mitochondrial function.
The incidence of oral lesions related to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection have been investigated after treatment with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) including protease inhibitors (PI) but no data are available on the effect of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based therapy on incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) oral manifestations or impact of HAART on oral manifestations of HIV infection in Brazil. The aim of this study was to describe the effects of anti-HIV therapy on the incidence of oral lesions during 17 years of AIDS epidemics in a Brazilian population.
Extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer (EMMPRIN) is identified as a tumor-cell membrane protein that stimulates matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) production. Several studies have shown that higher EMMPRIN expression is associated with shorter survival time and correlated significantly with more advanced clinico-parameters of cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between clinico-pathologic characteristics and EMMPRIN, and prognostic significance of EMMPRIN expression in human tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
Pediatric end-of-life care involves multiple decision-makers including the patient, the family, and the health care provider. Although some information exists on the role of patient and family values on decision making, little is known about what influences the health care provider's decisions and performance.
The small proportion of cancers diagnosed at the local disease stage, resectable at the time diagnosis, and responsive to chemotherapy contribute to poor survival making pancreatic cancer the fourth leading cause of cancer death among Americans. This emphasizes the importance of receiving appropriate palliative care. Racial/ethnic cancer treatment disparities have been observed for many cancer sites. We examine patterns of care in a population-based sample of African American, Hispanic and non-Hispanic white patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.
Hierarchical modeling (HM) is a statistical technique that has gained in popularity in health care research. It has been used for analysis of secondary data, performance profiles or benchmarking studies, and in prospective trials. The technique is used in situations in which traditional regression analysis might lead to incorrect conclusions. Specifically, data drawn from nested settings such as hospital units or hospice providers may be correlated, thus violating an assumption required for ordinary least squares regression.
Urinary and fecal continence can be achieved by constructing catheterizable continent channels that provide access to the bladder and bowel. Some patients develop persistent stomal leakage. A minimally invasive method of injection with a bulking agent for treatment of stomal incontinence was evaluated.
Treatment of posterior urethral valves (PUV) is now most commonly by endoscopic valve ablation, but this is not readily available in our environment. We describe our experience with Mohan's valvotome for the ablation of PUV.
Surgery for the primary tumor in breast cancer patients with synchronous isolated bone metastasis is applied for palliation. The aim was to determine whether surgical removal of the primary tumor provides a better survival and disease progression.
Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a malignant potential such as frequent microvascular invasion even if the tumor is smaller than 3 cm in diameter. The aim of this study was to clarify the preoperative predictors of poorly differentiated HCC for safe local ablation therapy.
The optimal site for injection of mapping tracers is controversial in sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy for breast cancer. We evaluated whether a combination of peritumoral (PT) injection and subareolar (SA) injection can improve the identification rate of SLN biopsy and decrease the false-negative rate.
Mechanisms of radioresistance in rectal cancer remain unclear.
The use of fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) for diagnosis of parotid gland masses (PGM) is questioned, because of low sensitivity and the generalized belief requiring surgery for most parotid masses. Information available is retrospective. Our objective was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of FNAB for diagnosis of patients with PGM.
Small bowel adenocarcinoma is a rare malignancy that presents both a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. The late presentation is often associated with disseminated carcinomatosis which is regarded a terminal event. We review our experience with small bowel peritoneal carcinomatosis following treatment with cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and perioperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy (PIC).
Duodenal adenocarcinoma (DA) is rare, but potentially curable. Prospective data on treatment outcomes is scarce and large retrospective studies show conflicting results on the impact of radical resection, node-status, and adjuvant therapy.
Breast cancer is regarded as a heterogeneous disease with four molecular subtypes. However, the clinicopathological characteristics among the different subtypes have not been studied in Chinese demographic. This study clarifies the prevalence and clinicopathological features of each subtype and investigates the independent prognosis factors in the Chinese population.
Using a large data set, we investigated the impact of the number of resected and involved lymph nodes on overall survival for patients with esophageal cancer.
New strategies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) are shifted from dopamine (DA) replacement to regeneration or restoration of the nigro-striatal system. A cell therapy using human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells as substitution for degenerated dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons has been developed and showed promising prospect in clinical treatment of PD, but the exact mechanism underlying this therapy is not fully elucidated. In the present study, we investigated whether the beneficial effects of this therapy are related to the trophic properties of RPE cells and their ability to synthesize DA.
Cervical spine involvement is common and potentially severe in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The objectives of this study were to compare the prevalences of cervical spine abnormalities detected by standard radiography, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with RA; and to identify factors associated with cervical spine involvement.
Despite previous reports of potential adverse cardiovascular effects of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists, the promise for PPAR agonists to positively affect risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes is of continued interest. The SYNCHRONY study aimed to establish the glucose-lowering and lipid-modifying effects, and safety profile, of the dual PPAR-alpha and PPAR-gamma agonist aleglitazar.
F Hoffmann-La Roche AG (Switzerland).
There are few therapeutic options for the prevention of gastrointestinal mucosal damage caused by low-dose aspirin. We therefore investigated the efficacy of famotidine, a well-tolerated histamine H(2)-receptor antagonist, in the prevention of peptic ulcers and erosive oesophagitis in patients receiving low-dose aspirin for vascular protection.
Merck Laboratories and Astellas Pharma.
Severe acute malnutrition affects 13 million children worldwide and causes 1-2 million deaths every year. Our aim was to assess the clinical and nutritional efficacy of a probiotic and prebiotic functional food for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition in a HIV-prevalent setting.
Department for International Development (DfID).
Morphine consumption can vary widely between individuals even for identical surgical procedures. As mu-opioid receptor (OPRM1) is known to modulate pain perception and mediate the analgesic effects of opioid compounds in the central nervous system, we examined the influence of two OPRM polymorphisms on acute post-operative pain and morphine usage in women undergoing elective caesarean delivery.
Catheter-related adverse events (CAE) remain a major cause of mortality and morbidity.
It is documented that individuals with closed head injury (CHI) demonstrate difficulty with narrative and conversational discourse. Effective conversational discourse requires a complex interaction of linguistic, cognitive, and social abilities [6]. Reduced attention and concentration are among the most common cognitive sequela following CHI [39].
Among patients with a patent foramen ovale (PFO) and a prior cryptogenic ischemic stroke or TIA, the absolute and relative risk of recurrent events is unclear.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by aggregates of the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT). A nonsignificant trend for positive family history has been observed in two case-control studies and several pedigrees with familial clustering of parkinsonism have been described. Occasionally, mutations in MAPT are found in patients with a clinical phenotype similar to PSP. In this case-control study, we compared the occurrence of dementia and parkinsonism among first-degree relatives of patients with PSP with an age- and sex-matched control group.
Experimental studies indicate that dopaminergic neurons in the ventral periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) are involved in maintenance of wakefulness. Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) is a common manifestation of multiple system atrophy (MSA) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) but involvement of these neurons has not yet been explored.
The neural mechanisms and the circuitry involved in levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) are still partially obscure. LID can be considered the consequence of an abnormal pattern or code of activity that originates and is conveyed from the basal ganglia to the thalamus and the cortical motor areas. However, not only striatothalamocortical motor circuits but also other interconnected pathways could be implicated in its pathogenesis.
BCRANK is available from Bioconductor (http://www.bioconductor.org/).
Physical inactivity is a key risk factor for chronic disease, but a growing number of people are not achieving the recommended levels of physical activity necessary for good health. Australians are no exception; despite Australia's image as a sporting nation, with success at the elite level, the majority of Australians do not get enough physical activity. There are many options for intervention, from individually tailored advice, such as counselling from a general practitioner, to population-wide approaches, such as mass media campaigns, but the most cost-effective mix of interventions is unknown. In this study we evaluate the cost-effectiveness of interventions to promote physical activity.
Praziquantel (PZQ) is the only widely available drug to treat schistosomiasis. Given the potential for drug resistance, it is prudent to search for novel therapeutics. Identification of anti-schistosomal chemicals has traditionally relied on phenotypic (whole organism) screening with adult worms in vitro and/or animal models of disease-tools that limit automation and throughput with modern microtiter plate-formatted compound libraries.
Filarial parasites (e.g., Brugia malayi, Onchocerca volvulus, and Wuchereria bancrofti) are causative agents of lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis, which are among the most disabling of neglected tropical diseases. There is an urgent need to develop macro-filaricidal drugs, as current anti-filarial chemotherapy (e.g., diethylcarbamazine [DEC], ivermectin and albendazole) can interrupt transmission predominantly by killing microfilariae (mf) larvae, but is less effective on adult worms, which can live for decades in the human host. All medically relevant human filarial parasites appear to contain an obligate endosymbiotic bacterium, Wolbachia. This alpha-proteobacterial mutualist has been recognized as a potential target for filarial nematode life cycle intervention, as antibiotic treatments of filarial worms harboring Wolbachia result in the loss of worm fertility and viability upon antibiotic treatments both in vitro and in vivo. Human trials have confirmed this approach, although the length of treatments, high doses required and medical counter-indications for young children and pregnant women warrant the identification of additional anti-Wolbachia drugs.
The parasitic trematode Schistosoma mansoni is one of the major causative agents of human schistosomiasis, which afflicts 200 million people worldwide. Praziquantel remains the main drug used for schistosomiasis treatment, and reliance on the single therapy has been prompting the search for new therapeutic compounds against this disease. Our group has demonstrated that heme crystallization into hemozoin (Hz) within the S. mansoni gut is a major heme detoxification route with lipid droplets involved in this process and acting as a potential chemotherapeutical target. In the present work, we investigated the effects of three antimalarial compounds, quinine (QN), quinidine (QND) and quinacrine (QCR) in a murine schistosomiasis model by using a combination of biochemical, cell biology and molecular biology approaches.
Yellow fever (YF) virtually disappeared in francophone West African countries as a result of YF mass vaccination campaigns carried out between 1940 and 1953. However, because of the failure to continue mass vaccination campaigns, a resurgence of the deadly disease in many African countries began in the early 1980s. We developed an original modeling approach to assess YF epidemic risk (vulnerability) and to prioritize the populations to be vaccinated.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) may provide an invaluable resource for regenerative medicine. To move hESCs towards the clinic it is important that cells with therapeutic potential be reproducibly generated under completely defined conditions.
Cellular contractility, essential for cell movement and proliferation, is regulated by microtubules, RhoA and actomyosin. The RhoA dependent kinase ROCK ensures the phosphorylation of the regulatory Myosin II Light Chain (MLC) Ser19, thereby activating actomyosin contractions. Microtubules are upstream inhibitors of contractility and their depolymerization or depletion cause cells to contract by activating RhoA. How microtubule dynamics regulates RhoA remains, a major missing link in understanding contractility.
The lack of axonal regeneration in the central nervous system is attributed among other factors to the formation of a glial scar. This cellular structure is mainly composed of reactive astrocytes that overexpress two intermediate filament proteins, the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin. Indeed, in vitro, astrocytes lacking GFAP or both GFAP and vimentin were shown to be the substrate for increased neuronal plasticity. Moreover, double knockout mice lacking both GFAP and vimentin presented lower levels of glial reactivity in vivo, significant axonal regrowth and improved functional recovery in comparison with wild-type mice after spinal cord hemisection. From these results, our objective was to develop a novel therapeutic strategy for axonal regeneration, based on the targeted suppression of astroglial reactivity and scarring by lentiviral-mediated RNA-interference (RNAi).
The Fourier space (reciprocal space) image of bulk polyethylene consists of lines superimposed on the coherent diffuse background. The mixed character of the image indicates the complex nature of these compounds. The inability in detecting full images of reciprocal space of polymeric substances without Compton radiation and the other undesirable diffuse scatterings has misled the structural analysis (structural characterisation) of these materials.
Microsatellites have been used extensively in the field of comparative genomics. By studying microsatellites in coding regions we have a simple model of how genotypic changes undergo selection as they are directly expressed in the phenotype as altered proteins. The simplest of these tandem repeats in coding regions are the tri-nucleotide repeats which produce a repeat of a single amino acid when translated into proteins. Tri-nucleotide repeats are often disease associated, and are also known to be unstable to both expansion and contraction. This makes them sensitive markers for studying proteome evolution, in closely related species.
Although useful for probing bacterial pathogenesis and physiology, current random mutagenesis systems suffer limitations for studying the toxin-producing bacterium Clostridium perfringens.
The swede midge, Contarinia nasturtii Kieffer, is a serious pest in crucifers. Its pheromone is a blend of (2S,9S)-diacetoxyundecane, (2S,10S)-diacetoxyundecane and (2S)-acetoxyundecane. The pheromone is used in monitoring traps, and this study examines possible ways to optimise the traps.
Typical active ingredient (AI) residue patterns are formed during droplet drying on plant surfaces owing to the interaction of spray solution characteristics and leaf micromorphology. Currently, comparatively little is known about the influence of AI deposit patterns within a spray droplet residue area on the penetration and biological efficacy of glyphosate. A scanning electron microscope with energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis has been used to characterise residue patterns and to quantify the area ultimately covered by glyphosate within the droplet spread area.
Surfactants are very often used for more efficient pesticide spraying, but knowledge about their influence on the leaching potential for pesticides is very limited. In the present study, the leaching of the herbicide bentazone [3-isopropyl-1H-2, 1,3-benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one 2,2-dioxide] was measured in columns with sandy loam soil with or without the addition of a non-ionic surfactant, octylphenol ethylene oxide condensate (Triton X-100, Triton), and an anionic surfactant, sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate (SDBS), and in the presence of both surfactants (SDBS + Triton).
Proquinazid is a new quinazolinone fungicide from DuPont registered in most European countries for powdery mildew control in cereals and vines. The aim of this paper is to present baseline sensitivity data in populations of Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici EM Marchal and Erysiphe necator (Schw) Burr as well as results from cross-resistance studies with other fungicides.
The possibility of gene flow from transgenic crops to wild relatives may be affected by reproductive capacity between them. The potential gene flow from two transgenic rice lines containing the bar gene to five accessions of weedy rice (WR1-WR5) was determined through examination of reproductive compatibility under controlled pollination.
The increasing occurrence of Qo inhibitor (QoI)-fungicide-resistant Plasmopara viticola (Berk. &amp; MA Curtis) Berl. &amp; DeToni populations is becoming a serious problem in the control of grapevine downy mildew worldwide.
Mycosphaerella fijiensis Morelet causes black sigatoka, the most important disease in bananas and plantains. Disease control is mainly through the application of systemic fungicides, including sterol demethylation inhibitors (DMIs). Their intensive use has favoured the appearance of resistant strains. However, no studies have been published on the possible resistance mechanisms.
Bemisia tabaci Gennadius Q-biotype has readily developed resistance to numerous insecticide classes. Studies in the Mediterranean area are needed to clarify the resistance status and cross-resistance patterns in this invasive whitefly biotype. The levels of resistance in nymphs of seven strains of B. tabaci Q-biotype from south-eastern Spain to representative insecticides were determined.
Pyrethroids are among the most potent pesticides known, with great potential for structural variation with retention or enhancement of potency. The simple methyl ester is easier to prepare (at least one step shorter) than the more complex pyrethroids modified on the alcohol moiety. The objective was to synthesise methyl esters of pyrethroid acids containing an aromatic ring on the acid moiety and evaluate their biological activity against Ascia monuste orseis Latr., Tuta absoluta Meyrick, Periplaneta americana (L.), Musca domestica L. and Sitophilus zeamais (Motsch.).
Microdochium nivale (Fr.) Samuels &amp; Hallet and Microdochium majus (Wollenweber) belong to the Fusarium ear blight (FEB) fungal complex affecting cereals. In 2007 and 2008, major Microdochium sp. infestations were observed in France, and the efficacy of strobilurins was found to be altered in some field trials. The aim of this study was to determine the sensitivity to strobilurins of French isolates of Microdochium and to characterise the possible mechanisms of resistance.
Asian citrus psyllid (ACP), Diaphorina citri Kuwayama, transmits the causal bacteria of the devastating citrus disease huanglongbing (HLB). Because of the variation in spatial and temporal uptake and systemic distribution of imidacloprid applied to citrus trees and its degradation over time in citrus trees, ACP adults and nymphs are exposed to concentrations that may not cause immediate mortality but rather sublethal effects. The objective of this laboratory study was to determine the effects of sublethal concentrations of imidacloprid on ACP life stages.
Previous studies showed that mammalian galectin-1 (GAL1) could interact with chitosan or chitin, one component of the peritrophic membrane (PM). This finding suggests that the PM could be a target of GAL1, which prompted the authors to explore the effect of GAL1 on larval growth and its potential mechanism.
In 2004, field isolates of Botrytis cinerea Pers. ex Fr., resistant to strobilurin fungicides (QoIs), were first found in commercial citrus orchards in Wakayama Prefecture, Japan. Subsequently, QoI-resistant isolates of this fungus were also detected in plastic strawberry greenhouses in Saga, Ibaraki and Chiba prefectures, Japan. Biological and molecular characterisation of resistant isolates was conducted in this study.
Thiamethoxam, a neonicotinoid insecticide, has been widely accepted for use in various crops, including vegetables, owing to its high efficacy against various chewing and sucking insect pests. In this particular study, the authors examined the residue dynamics of this insecticide in tomato and soil and calculated a safety index for this insecticide in an Indian context.
Simulator training is well established to improve technical and non-technical skills in critical situations. Few data exist about stress experienced during simulator training. This study aims to evaluate performance and stress in intensivists before and after two different simulator-based training approaches.
In previous studies ketamine was reported to improve survival and decrease serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentration after sepsis alone and after burn injury followed by sepsis. The aim of this study was to determine whether ketamine alters survival and/or IL-6 after hemorrhagic shock alone or hemorrhagic shock followed by sepsis.
Most manikin and clinical studies have found decreased quality of CPR during transport to hospital. We wanted to study quality of CPR before and during transport for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients and also whether quality of CPR before initiation of transport was different from the quality in patients only receiving CPR on scene.
Endotracheal intubation remains the standard of airway management. Because intubation skills are difficult to acquire, for medical students teaching of easier to learn techniques should be considered.
Public access defibrillation (PAD) programs are a major goal of the American Heart Association (AHA) to ensure that automated external defibrillators and trained lay rescuers are available in public areas where sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is likely to occur. The Johnson County Early Defibrillation Task Force (JCEDTF) is a volunteer organization which distributed AEDs throughout Johnson County, Iowa. JCEDTF was responsible for initial training but ongoing support was the responsibility of each site.
The King LT-D is a supraglottic airway with the potential for use by trained first responders in settings where access to advanced life support interventions by a physician or Emergency Medical Services may be delayed.
During cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), mouth-to-mouth ventilation (MTM) is only effective if rescuers are willing to perform it.
The clinical symptoms and pathophysiologic mechanisms during and after ischaemia-reperfusion following cardiac arrest (CA) and successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) closely resemble those observed in patients with severe sepsis. Impairment of microcirculation and endothelial leakage seem to play key roles in the underlying pathophysiology. Recombinant human activated protein C (rhAPC) is the first drug being licensed for the treatment of severe sepsis in patients. Therefore, for the first time, we investigated effects of rhAPC on microhaemodynamic changes and endothelial leakage applying in vivo microscopy of postcapillary mesenteric venules after CA and CPR in rats.
Recent scientific evidence has demonstrated the importance of good quality chest compressions without interruption to improve cardiac arrest resuscitation rates, and suggested that a de-emphasis on minute ventilation is needed. However, independent of ventilation, the role of oxygen and the optimal oxygen concentration during CPR is not known. Previous studies have shown that ventilation with high oxygen concentration after CPR is associated with worse neurologic outcome. We tested the hypothesis that initial ventilation during CPR without oxygen improves resuscitation success.
Continuous cardiac index (CCI) monitoring can provide information to assist in hemodynamic support. However, pulmonary artery catheters (PAC) pose logistic challenges in acute care settings. We hypothesized that CCI measured with a calibrated minimally invasive technique (LiDCO/PulseCO, UK) would have good agreement with the PAC.
In Germany, as in many other countries, for the vast majority of cases, critical out-of-hospital (OOH) paediatric emergencies are attended by non-specialised emergency physicians (EPs). As it is assumed that this may lead to deficient service we aimed to gather robust data on the characteristics of OOH paediatric emergencies.
Quantitative measures of the ventricular fibrillation (VF) electrocardiogram (ECG) have been correlated with the success of rescue shocks, making them ideal measures for guiding resuscitative interventions. Correlation of intramyocardial energy stores with the change in quantitative VF ECG measures would provide mechanistic insight into their utility. We sought to investigate the relationship between intramyocardial energy stores and four quantitative ECG measures.
The clinical state (i.e. ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia: VF/VT, asystole: ASY, pulseless electrical activity: PEA, or return of spontaneous circulation, ROSC) during cardiopulmonary resuscitation determines patient management. We investigate how spontaneous transitions (i.e. not forced by DC shock) between these states are influenced by factors like age, gender, bystander CPR, CPR quality, proportion of time spent in a state, or the number of state transitions.
Most patients with cardiac arrest (CA) admitted to hospitals after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) are discharged with various degree of neurological deficits. To determine predictor of neurological outcome early and accurately, and to determine cutoff values, serum levels of protein S-100B and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) within 24h after CA were assessed.
A well-suited e-learning program might be a feasible strategy to maintain competence following a resuscitation course.
The use of a personal resuscitation manikin with video instruction is reportedly as effective as traditional instructor-led courses in teaching lay people basic life support (BLS). We applied this method to an entire hospital staff to determine its effect on their practical and self-judged BLS skills.
One of the comorbid alterations of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) affects motricity, to the point where the quality of motor performance during the first 5-6 years of life could constitute a predictor of the later appearance of symptoms of the disorder. Moreover, the association between motor clumsiness and ADHD results in a poorer prognosis of the condition. Nevertheless, few studies have examined the evolution of motricity in children affected with this pathology.
The disorder known as 'PANDAS syndrome' (paediatric autoimmune neuro-psychiatric disorders associated with Streptococci) consists in an abrupt onset of obsessive-compulsive symptoms and/or movement disorders, a pre-puberal onset, and an episodic course. Antibiotic therapy has been postulated as a first choice therapeutic option. A summarised review of main literature on this topic is presented.
Today we know of a group of mutations caused by the expansion of nucleotide triplets, which are very unstable in meiosis and mitosis. Four types of triplets have the capacity for pathogenic expansion in human beings (CGG/ GCC, CAG/GTC, CTG/GAC and GAA/CTT) and maybe located both in coding sequences (bulbospinal muscular atrophy, Huntington's disease and certain spinocerebellar ataxias) and non-coding sequences (fragile X syndrome, Friedreich's ataxia, myotonic dystrophy). Trinucleotide expansion may lead to gains or losses in gene functioning and seems to be associated to a variety of factors, some of which are directly related with the expansive process (cis-acting) and others whose interaction with the triplets helps to make them increasingly more unstable (trans-acting). Medium-sized expansions (pre-mutations), although clinically silent, do show a marked tendency to expand into complete mutations during the transition along the germinal line. The models that have been proposed to explain triplet expansion involve gene recombination and replication processes; however, they have not fully succeeded in explaining the phenomena related to mutation or phenotypic expression in these diseases.
Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) is an enzyme member of A2 phosholipases superfamily. The 80% circulates bound to LDL-cholesterol and levels of both parameters are positively correlated. The main function of this enzyme is to hydrolyze oxidized phospholipids contained in LDL-cholesterol forming pro-inflammatory products in atheroma plaque. Several studies related raised Lp-PLA2 and vascular risk.
During the 'scientific revolution' that took place in the 18th century, a complex and poorly completed theory on the functioning of the nervous system, neural circulation, was to draw the attention of the European vanguards and, although it came up against a number of important obstacles, it also attempted to renew the traditional gallenic knowledge that had prevailed until then. In Spain, the field of medical knowledge was to flourish and the neurosciences presented their credentials with the introduction and development of the concept of neural circulation by the novator Martin Martinez.
The growing proportions of older people in rural areas have implications for the provision of health and social care services. Older people are more likely to have complex health needs compared with other age groups, requiring a full range of primary, community and acute hospital services. The provision of services to older people in rural areas is challenged by diseconomies of scale, travel costs and difficulties in attracting staff. Policy-makers are requested to include the 'voice' of older people to help provide services that match needs and context. In spite of this, what older people want from health and social care services is a neglected area of investigation. The reported study was conducted in 2005/2006 as part of a European Union Northern Periphery Programme (EU NPP) project called Our Life as Elderly. Its aims were to explore the views of those aged 55 years and over and living in remote communities about current and future health and social care service provision for older people. Evidence was to be collected that could inform policy-makers about changing or improving service delivery. This article summarises emergent themes and considers their implications.
Cancer of the uterine cervix is rare during adolescence. The reported rates are 0/100,000 adolescents aged 10 to 19 years and 1.7/100,000 women aged 20 to 24 years. However, several studies have shown increasing incidence of preneoplastic lesions at increasingly early ages.
Most patients with methanol poisoning typically show up one to several days after ingestion, presenting severe acidosis, visual disorders, or both. Reports of hospitalization less than 6 h after exposure are unusual. We describe a case of attempted suicide using methanol admitted 3 h after ingestion.
Barriers to cervical cancer screening (Pap tests) may exist for women experiencing schizophrenia.
Recently, repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) has been introduced as an alternative treatment for auditory hallucinations in schizophrenic patients that fail to respond to antipsychotics. Until now, application of rTMS has been at low frequency, and most commonly applied to the left temporoparietal cortex. This 6-month follow-up pilot study was performed to demonstrate the efficacy of high frequency rTMS guided by anatomical and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
An early response to antipsychotic treatment in patients with psychosis has been associated with a better course and outcome. However, factors that predict treatment response are not well understood. The onset of schizophrenia and related disorders has been associated with increased levels of stress and hyper-activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. This study examined whether pituitary volume at the onset of psychosis may be a potential predictor of early treatment response in first-episode psychosis (FEP) patients.
Clozapine is the most effective agent in treatment-resistant schizophrenia. However, it is frequently associated with excessive body weight (BW) gain, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia. The antidiabetic metformin (MET) has proved effective to assist in BW control during olanzapine administration. Therefore, we aimed to test whether MET may improve the metabolic profile in patients under prolonged clozapine administration.
Antipsychotic medication is the cornerstone of schizophrenia treatment. The impact of long-term exposure to antipsychotics on life-expectancy has recently received some attention, partly because awareness is increasing of the differential mortality of people with schizophrenia and the general population.
Non-compliance with medication often has long-term detrimental effects in patients with schizophrenia. However, when patients are compliant, it is not certain whether they experience short-term improved quality of life. By simultaneously reducing symptoms and increasing side-effects, compliance with antipsychotics may have opposing effects on a patient's perceived quality of life.
Patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder have frequently reported weight gain during olanzapine treatment. Previous studies have observed a decrease in weight gain, or weight loss, in patients switching from standard olanzapine tablets (SOT) to orally disintegrating olanzapine (ODO) tablets. The primary objective of this study was to investigate the change in body mass index (BMI) in patients who had previously gained weight with SOT and continued with this therapy during the study period, compared with those patients who switched to ODO during the study period.
One of the major challenges in the design of double-blind flexible-dosing clinical trials comparing active drugs is the selection of dosing regimens that are equivalent across drugs. This study uses data from the CATIE schizophrenia trial to evaluate the hypothesis that drugs that were dosed somewhat higher in the trial than in typical practice would show greater efficacy and more side effects, especially at high capsule levels, than drugs that were dosed at lower relative strengths.
Facial emotion recognition deficits [FERD] have been consistently demonstrated in treated schizophrenia patients. FERD in treatment-nave patients and the effect of antipsychotics are yet to be explored.
Most patients with schizophrenia exhibit negative symptoms, even during acute episodes. These difficult-to-treat symptoms are often associated with poor functioning and outcomes.
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) indices are increasingly being used in the microbiological field to assess the efficacy of a dosing regimen. In contrast to methods using MIC, PK/PD-based methods reflect in vivo conditions and are more predictive of efficacy. Unfortunately, they entail the use of one PK-derived value such as AUC or Cmax and may thus lead to biased efficiency information when the variability is large. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the efficacy of a treatment by adjusting classical breakpoint estimation methods to the situation of variable PK profiles.
Small for Gestational Age (SGA) neonates often appear with haemostatic alterations, principally due to hepatic dysfunction that results from chronic intrauterine hypoxia. Polycythaemia and thrombocytopenia are common findings in this neonatal population.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients have a variable response profile to the P2Y(12) receptor antagonist clopidogrel. P2Y(12) receptor signalling promotes platelet procoagulant activity. The aim of this study was to determine if T2DM patients with suboptimal clopidogrel response have greater platelet procoagulant activity compared with optimal responders and evaluate if this can be modulated by enhancing P2Y(12) receptor inhibition.
Upon stimulation, endothelial cells release von Willebrand factor (VWF) in the unusually large (UL) and hyperactive forms that are rapidly cleaved by ADAMTS-13. Mutations in the ADAMTS13 gene result in ULVWF-mediated thrombosis found in patients with familial thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura (TTP). ADAMTS-13 fits in the consensus of the ADAMTS family metalloproteases, but also contains two unique C- terminal CUB domains. Studying mutations in CUB domains could provide insights into the functional role of these domains.
Major trauma induces a hypercoagulable state, which is frequently complicated by pathological thrombosis. However the sequential changes in coagulation markers and their relationship to clinical thrombosis have been poorly characterized.
A fraction of fibrinogen molecules contain an alternatively spliced variant chain called gamma'. Plasma levels of this variant have been associated with both myocardial infarction and venous thrombosis. Because clot structure has been associated with cardiovascular risk, we examined the effect of gamma' chain on clot structure.
Inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) improves the hemodynamics during acute pulmonary embolism (APE) and oxidative stress upregulates MMPs. We compared the effects of different NO-cGMP pathway activators on APE-induced increases in MMPs.
Pregnancy increases the risk of mechanical heart valve (MHV) thrombosis. Warfarin is protective, but implies risks to the fetus. Unfractionated heparin (UFH) is less effective but does not harm the fetus. In general, anticoagulation is more stable and predictable with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) than with UFH.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients have increased risk for cardiovascular mortality and venous thromboembolism. Tissue factor (TF) is the physiological initiating mechanism for blood coagulation and is pro-inflammatory.
The thrombogenic process that affects the hypertensive patient is associated with regulatory mechanisms present in the vascular endothelium. These mechanisms involve release of an endothelium-derived relaxing factor, ectonucleotidase activity and calcium ion concentration.
Markers of systemic inflammation, including blood leukocyte count, are associated with increased cardiovascular risk, but the mechanisms underlying this association are unclear. Leukocytes may promote platelet reactivity and thrombus formation, providing a basis for increased risk, but a relation between leukocyte count and platelet function has not been studied.
The true incidence of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTPH) remains a matter of debate. Symptomatic CTPH is probably more common than previously reported, whereas the occurrence of asymptomatic CTPH has not been defined since very limited evidence on the incidence of asymptomatic CTPH diagnosed with echocardiography Doppler are currently available. We therefore carried out a prospective cohort study to assess the incidence of CTPH diagnosed with echocardiography Doppler in consecutive patients with a first episode of PE.
To estimate the three-month cumulative incidence of thromboembolism and bleeding among mechanical heart valve (MHV) patients receiving peri-procedural anticoagulation management, consecutive MHV patients referred to the Mayo Clinic Thrombophilia Center for peri-procedural anticoagulation management over the seven-year period, 1997-2003, were followed for three months for thromboembolism, bleeding and vital status.
In patients who are receiving warfarin therapy and require cataract surgery, it may be possible to continue warfarin in the perioperative period but the safety of this management strategy has not been systematically evaluated.
To study the functions of residues gamma326Cys and gamma339Cys in the assembly and/or secretion of fibrinogen, recombinant fibrinogens were synthesized to replicate naturally occurring gamma326Tyr and gamma326Ser variants, along with gamma326Ala and gamma339Ala variants.
The standardized test used for evaluating the effect of warfarin is the prothrombin time (PT) which is measured and expressed in international normalized ratio (INR). Regular control of treatment intensity is required since inappropriate dosage increases the risk for complications. Portable point-of-care analytical instruments for measurement of capillary whole blood PT have been available for the last decades. The purpose of this study was to compare and evaluate INR values obtained by the point-of-care device CoaguChek XS, to Owren PT in a hospital setting.
Scorpion sting envenomation is a life-threatening emergency and a common public health problem in many regions of the world, particularly in children. Children are at greater risk of developing severe cardiac, respiratory, and neurological complications.
The impact of depression in the workplace is significant. If managers and employees understood depression better they could assist those with depression to achieve optimal work performance.
A new Italian law aiming at improving and supporting research productivity establishes that evaluation of academic products is a requisite for accessing research funds,for acting as examiner for recruitments and for individual financial benefits.
For several years the literature has reported a high prevalence of upper limb musculoskeletal disorders among medical staff carrying out digestive endoscopy.
ionizing radiation on the lens of the eye can produce a progressive cataract. Small cumulative doses, over a long time period, can produce adverse effects on the professional capabilities of health workers in the ionizing radiation zone.
The present article is a follow-up of previous research, in which a sedimentation method was proposed to measure the dispersion of fibre bundles (primary pollution) from asbestos-cement roofs.
Current statistics show that work-related carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) has been increasing constantly over the last ten years. Nevertheless, available data on the incidence of CTS in the general population and on the occupational proportion of the aetiology of this disease suggest considerable underreporting of work-related cases, which reflects on the number of cases reported to INAIL (National Insurance Institute for Industrial Accidents) and does not give an accurate epidemiological picture of their origin and distribution. For this reason, in the course of a prevention programme of upper limb disorders due to biomechanical overload, a second experiment concerning CTS surveillance system was carried out by collecting self-reported information via postal questionnaires. The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of work-related cases in the selected group of the general population and to identify work tasks and factories with significant risk of CTS clusters.
Teachers are one of the so-called helping professions which are strongly exposed to the "Burnout syndrome". Nonetheless, public opinion is still convinced teachers enjoy a privileged status and physicians most often ignore psychiatric disorders following burnout due to teaching-related stress. Indeed, although France recently issued a suicide warning among teachers, and psychiatric diagnosis among this profession almost doubled in Japan in ten years, only few studies have been published on the subject in peer-reviewed journals.
Ethical behaviour consists ofindividual choices inspired by knowledge and professional experience derived from the universally acknowledged ethical principles of beneficience/nonmaleficience, autonomy and justice. However, in spite of the unanimous consent on their universal importance, such principles do not usually have the strength of a law.
Several Department of Health policy documents outline a vision for services to be designed around patients. The community matron service was introduced across NHS South of Tyne and Wear PCTs in 2005 and has developed over the last four years to offer a seven-day service to patients, delivered by 52 community matrons.
Cirrhosis related complications, considered MELD exceptions, proved to add prognostic value to the MELD score in predicting waiting list mortality.
Liver transplantation (LT), Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD), waiting list (WL), United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), standard deviation (SD), receiver operating characteristic (ROC), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CTP), hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG).
Granular cell tumors (GCT) are uncommon soft tissue neoplasms of presumed neural origin that rarely involve the male external genitalia. Penile lesions are distinctly uncommon with less than 20 cases reported till now.
Cold water immersion could compromise both the effectiveness and safety of a diver. This paper reports an evaluation of the utility of providing external heating to divers in cold water.
In-flight muscle mass and strength losses are likely exacerbated by low growth hormone (GH) concentrations. Factors associated with exercise may foretell resultant GH levels and thereby help blunt future mass and strength losses.
Military personnel are often exposed to training programs and operational situations that involve multiple stressors such as caloric deficit, sleep deprivation, and prolonged physical effort, which may disturb body homeostasis, as indicated by hormonal responses.Therefore, we investigated the effects of three training regimens on serum basal hormone concentrations before and after the 8-wk basic training (BT) period, and whether possible changes in serum basal concentrations are related to changes in endurance and strength performance.
This study presents the results of seven aerospace manikin and three post mortem human surrogate (PMHS) horizontal deceleration sled tests. The objective of this study was to establish a body of baseline data that examines the ability of small (fifth percentile) manikins to predict whole-body kinematics associated with aircraft ejection, and whether currently available head and neck injury criteria are applicable in these situations.
Acute cold stress is often accompanied by exposure to other adverse factors, such as sleep loss, under-nutrition, and psychological stress that singly and together may affect cognitive function.
Crashes of sightseeing helicopter flights in Hawaii and the resulting tourist deaths prompted the FAA to issue regulations in 1994 specific to air tours in Hawaii. Research was undertaken to examine the effect of the 1994 Rule and to describe the circumstances of such crashes.
Seasickness is a common problem, causing a significant decrement in performance among naval crew. In about 20-60% of crewmembers, symptoms appear with varying intensity depending on the sea state and the duration of the voyage. Recent studies have suggested antiemetic 5HT3 blockers as a possible treatment for motion sickness, emphasizing their minor clinical and cognitive side effects. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the 5HT3 blocker ondansetron in the prevention of seasickness.
The associations of pilot error with the type of flight operations and basic weather conditions are well documented. The correlation between pilot characteristics and error is less clear. This study aims to examine whether pilot age is associated with the prevalence and patterns of pilot error in air taxi crashes.
Atrophy of the leg muscles is a serious consequence of disuse and occurs with prolonged exposure to microgravity. We investigated whether intense interval training on a cycle ergometer would prevent muscle changes during unilateral lower limb suspension (ULLS).
Complete sphenoethmoidectomy with a Draf IIA frontal dissection is the standard of care surgical management for medically resistant diffuse recurrent sinus barotrauma. Surgical failures still occur with this technique mainly due to the propensity of the frontal outflow tract to stenose. Endoscopic frontal revisions are notoriously prone to failure and historically represented the only option for aircrew afflicted by this career-ending complication of surgery. The frontal sinus drillout or endoscopic modified Lothrop procedure (EMLP) offers a highly successful salvage surgery for postoperative frontal ostium stenosis and is particularly suited to the physiologic requirements of the aviator.
Because there is a shortage of pulmonologists in Japan, it is crucial to understand interns' decision-making process of selecting respiratory medicine as their specialty.
Modern computer tomography (CT) equipment can be used to acquire whole-body data from large animals such as pigs in minutes or less. In some circumstances, computer assisted analysis of the resulting image data can identify and measure anatomical features. The thickness of subcutaneous adipose tissue at a specific site measured by ultrasound, is used in the pig industry to assess adiposity and inform management decisions that have an impact on reproduction, food conversion performance and sow longevity. The measurement site, called "P2", is used throughout the industry. We propose that CT can be used to measure subcutaneous adipose tissue thickness and identify novel measurement sites that can be used as predictors of general adiposity.
Because of its chemical-physical properties, 2-ethoxyethyl acetate (EEAc) can penetrate through the skin. However, no actual occupational environmental studies or empirical dermal exposure measurements have been performed.
Action research (AR) holds promise as a method to improve occupational health and safety.
Since previous studies have provided conflicting results, we investigated the relationship between the risk of benign asbestos-related diseases and different aspects of asbestos exposure in previous asbestos workers who underwent low-dose computed tomography (CT).
We measured resources used to provide medical care and to estimate lost productivity represented by payments for lost work time or impairment for work-related back injuries among a large cohort of union carpenters over 15 years.
The Sheet Metal Occupational Health Institute Trust (SMOHIT) was formed in 1985 to examine the health hazards of the sheet metal industry in the U.S. and Canada through an asbestos disease screening program. A study of mortality patterns among screening program participants was undertaken.
The aim of this study was to measure ultraviolet radiation (UVR) exposures of lifeguards in pool settings and evaluate their personal UVR protective practices.
Both smooth and rough Proteus sp. strains can be found. The latter are characterized by their lack of an O-polysaccharide chain in the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) molecule, which makes them suitable for obtaining anti-core sera. Using this kind of material enables identifying fragments of the Proteus LPS core region that might be involved in cross-reactions. To date only a few similar epitopes have been established for the genus Proteus.
The objective of this study was to determine the expression levels of metallothionein (MT) and p53 protein, recognized neoplastic transformation markers, in pancreatic serous cystadenomas (SCA) and adenomocarcinomas.
The aim of the study was to describe the levels of circulating monocyte/macrophage pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta IL-6, and IL-8) and an anti-inflammatory cytokine (IL-10) in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and colorectal cancer (CRC) patients and healthy controls.
Predicting the location of functionally important sites from protein sequence and/or structure is a long-standing problem in computational biology. Most current approaches make use of sequence conservation, assuming that amino acid residues conserved within a protein family are most likely to be functionally important. Most often these approaches do not consider many residues that act to define specific sub-functions within a family, or they make no distinction between residues important for function and those more relevant for maintaining structure (e.g. in the hydrophobic core). Many protein families bind and/or act on a variety of ligands, meaning that conserved residues often only bind a common ligand sub-structure or perform general catalytic activities.
DNA sequence comparison is based on optimal local alignment of two sequences using a similarity score. However, some new DNA sequencing technologies do not directly measure the base sequence, but rather an encoded form, such as the two-base encoding considered here. In order to compare such data to a reference sequence, the data must be decoded into sequence. The decoding is deterministic, but the possibility of measurement errors requires searching among all possible error modes and resulting alignments to achieve an optimal balance of fewer errors versus greater sequence similarity.
Late presentation has been observed as the hallmark of breast cancer in Nigerian women and an earlier onset has been reported in this population. This study was designed to assess the awareness of female health workers about risk factors and screening methods for early detection of breast cancer.
The treatment of the primary tumor in advanced metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) is still a matter of discussion. Little attention has thus far been paid to the endoscopically observable changes of the primary in non-curatively resectable stage IV disease.
Previous studies from the USA have shown that acute nuclear myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in low risk emergency department (ED) patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome (ACS) can be of clinical value. The aim of this study was to evaluate the utility and hospital economics of acute MPI in Swedish ED patients with suspected ACS.
District nurses (DNs) provide home care for old persons with a mixture of chronic diseases, symptoms and reduced functional ability. Family physicians (FPs) have been criticised for their lack of involvement in this care. The aim of this study was to obtain increased knowledge concerning the FP's experience of providing medical treatment for patients with home care provided by DNs by developing a theoretical model that elucidates how FPs handle the problems they encounter regarding the individual patients and their conditions.
The School Fruit and Vegetable Scheme (SFVS) is an important public health intervention. The aim of this scheme is to provide a free piece of fruit and/or vegetable every day for children in Reception to Year 2. When children are no longer eligible for the scheme (from Year 3) their overall fruit and vegetable consumption decreases back to baseline levels. This proposed study aims to design a flexible multi-component intervention for schools to support the maintenance of fruit and vegetable consumption for Year 3 children who are no longer eligible for the scheme.
Medical Research Council Registry code G0501297.
Structured care is proposed as a lever for improving care for patients with chronic conditions. The purpose of this study was to explore the associations of structured care characteristics, derived from the Chronic Care Model, with health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and optimal clinical management in chronic heart failure (CHF) patients in primary care, as well as the association between optimal management and HRQOL.
Gastric cancers frequently show chromosomal alterations which can cause activation of oncogenes, and/or inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. In gastric cancer several chromosomal regions are described to be frequently lost, but for most of the regions, no tumour suppressor genes have been identified yet. The present study aimed to identify tumour suppressor genes inactivated by nonsense mutation and deletion in gastric cancer by means of GINI (gene identification by nonsense mediated decay inhibition) and whole genome copy number analysis.
Response rates in surveys have been falling over the last 20 years, leading to the need for novel approaches to enhance recruitment. This study describes strategies used to maximise recruitment to a home interview survey of mothers with young children living in areas of high deprivation.
The extended tau haplotype (H1) that covers the entire human microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) gene has been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD). Nevertheless, controversial results, such as two studies in Greek populations with opposite effects, have been reported. Therefore, we set out to determine whether the H1 haplotype and additional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) included in H1 are associated with PD in a sample of Greek patients.
Despite the fact that the population of self-employed persons is still growing and at risk for long term disability due to a number of risk factors, there is still a lack of information on the effectiveness of interventions for this specific group.
Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN67766245.
The HIV virus is known for its ability to exploit numerous genetic and evolutionary mechanisms to ensure its proliferation, among them, high replication, mutation and recombination rates. Sliding MinPD, a recently introduced computational method 1, was used to investigate the patterns of evolution of serially-sampled HIV-1 sequence data from eight patients with a special focus on the emergence of X4 strains. Unlike other phylogenetic methods, Sliding MinPD combines distance-based inference with a nonparametric bootstrap procedure and automated recombination detection to reconstruct the evolutionary history of longitudinal sequence data. We present serial evolutionary networks as a longitudinal representation of the mutational pathways of a viral population in a within-host environment. The longitudinal representation of the evolutionary networks was complemented with charts of clinical markers to facilitate correlation analysis between pertinent clinical information and the evolutionary relationships.
The purpose of the current study was to investigate the effects of aging on tendon response to repetitive exposures of stretch-shortening cycles (SSC's).
The essential aetiology of radiation-induced acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in mice is the downregulation of the transcription factor PU.1. The causative mutation of the PU.1-endocing Sfpi1 gene consists mostly of C:G to T:A transitions at a CpG site and is likely to be of spontaneous origin. To work out a mechanism underlying the association between radiation exposure and the AML induction, we have hypothesised that replicative stress after irradiation accelerates the ageing of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), and the ageing-related decline in DNA repair could affect the spontaneous mutation rates.
Annexin II (ANX2) is a multi-functional protein involved in cell proliferation and membrane physiology and is related to cancer progression. The purpose of this study was to assess ANX2 expression in clear-cell (cc) renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
We investigated, in the panel of 60 human tumour cell lines of the National Cancer Institute (NCI-60), whether the R72P polymorphism of TP53 and the T309G polymorphism of MDM2 were associated to the in vitro cytotoxicity of anticancer agents, extracted from the NCI database. For validation, the same study was performed independently on a second panel of tumour cell lines, JFCR-45.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) promotes breast cancer and disease progression. Bioavailability of IGF1 is modulated by IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs). IGFBP4 inhibits IGF1 activity but cleavage by pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) protease releases active IGF1.
Uterine serous papillary carcinoma (USPC) is a biologically aggressive variant of endometrial cancer. We investigated the expression of Serum Amyloid A (SAA) and evaluated its potential as a serum biomarker in USPC patients.
Gold(III) porphyrin 1a is a new class of anticancer drug, which inhibits cell proliferation of wide range of human cancer cell lines and induces apoptosis in human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells. However, the underlying signalling mechanism by which gold(III) porphyrin 1a modifies the intracellular apoptosis pathways in tumour cells has not been explained in detail in neuroblastoma cells.
Proteomic methods have the potential to meet the urgent need for better cancer biomarkers. We have used a range of proteomic analyses of serum and tissue from gastric cancer patients and relevant controls to discover biomarkers for gastric cancer.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a major cause of death in the United Kingdom. Regular screening could significantly reduce CRC-related morbidity and mortality. However, screening programmes in the United Kingdom have to date seen uptake rates of less than 60%. Attitudes towards screening are the primary factors determining patient uptake.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is a DNA-binding enzyme activated by DNA breaks and involved in DNA repair and other cellular processes. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase activity can be higher in cancer than in adjacent normal tissue, but cancer predisposition is reported to be greater in individuals with a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) V762A (T2444C) in the catalytic domain that reduces PARP-1 activity.
Human colorectal cancer is caused by mutations and is thought to be maintained by a population of cancer stem cells. Further phenotypic changes occurring at the invasive edge suggest that colon cancer cells are also regulated by their microenvironment. Type I collagen, a promoter of the malignant phenotype in pancreatic carcinoma cells, is highly expressed at the invasive front of human colorectal cancer.
Asparagine-glycine-arginine-human tumour necrosis factor (NGR-hTNF) is a vascular targeting agent exploiting a tumour-homing peptide (NGR) that selectively binds to aminopeptidase N/CD13, overexpressed on tumour blood vessels. Significant preclinical synergy was shown between low doses of NGR-TNF and doxorubicin.
The RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway is involved in the balance between melanocyte proliferation and differentiation. The same pathway is constitutively activated in cutaneous and uveal melanoma (UM) and related to tumour growth and survival. Whereas mutant BRAF and NRAS are responsible for the activation of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in most cutaneous melanoma, mutations in these genes are usually absent in UM.
The aim of this study was to report on changes in the diagnostic assessment, patterns of care and survival over time for pancreatic cancers.
Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is overexpressed in a variety of cancers, such as breast, colon, prostate, ovary, and lung cancers. However, the mechanism by which extracellular matrix fibronectin stimulates lung cancer cell migration and invasion through FAK remains to be investigated.
Cancerous stem-like cells (CSCs) have been implicated as cancer-initiating cells in a range of malignant tumours. Diverse genetic programs regulate CSC behaviours, and CSCs from glioblastoma patients are qualitatively distinct from each other. The intrinsic connection between the presence of CSCs and malignancy is unclear. We set out to test whether tumour stem-like cells can be identified from benign tumours.
Two new agents have recently been licensed for use in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in Europe. This paper aims to systematically review the evidence from all available randomised clinical trials of sunitinib and bevacizumab (in combination with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha)) in the treatment of advanced metastatic RCC.
To investigate the value of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS), in endometrial cancer with transperitoneal spread (stage IV).
This multicentre, international phase II trial evaluated the efficacy and safety profile of a first-line combination of oral vinorelbine plus capecitabine for women with metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
To assess the efficacy and safety of S-1 and cisplatin with concurrent thoracic radiation for unresectable stage III non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Dasatinib is a small molecule kinase inhibitor that has recently been shown to inhibit Src family kinases (SFK) and also has activity against CaP. Of importance to metastatic CaP, which frequently metastasises to bone, SFK are also vital to the regulation of bone remodelling. We sought to determine the ability of dasatinib to inhibit growth of CaP in bone.
The X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), an endogenous apoptosis suppressor, can determine the level of caspase accumulation and the resultant response to apoptosis-inducing agents such as cisplatin in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). In addition, the mismatch repair protein, hMLH1, has been linked to DNA damage-induced apoptosis by cisplatin by both p53-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
Laparoscopic ventral and incisional hernia repair has been reported in a number of small trials to have equivalent or superior outcomes to open repair.
The physiological disturbances leading to lymphoedema after breast cancer surgery are poorly understood. Damage to sympathetic nerves during axillary lymph node dissection (ALND), leading to increased capillary fluid filtration, was investigated as a possible contributory factor.
Neointima formation, mainly characterized by smooth muscle cell proliferation, is an important cause of venous bypass graft failure. The therapeutic potential of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to attenuate smooth muscle cell proliferation and neointima formation was examined in vivo. The effects of NAC on hyperoxia-induced venous smooth muscle cell (VSMC) cytokine production and proliferation were addressed in vitro.
The incidence of arm lymphoedema after treatment for breast cancer ranges from 1 to 49 per cent. Although most women can be treated by non-operative means with satisfying results, end-stage lymphoedema is often non-responsive to compression, where hypertrophy of adipose tissue limits the outcome value of compression or massage.
The term perihilar cholangiocarcinoma has been used for all tumours involving or requiring resection of the hepatic confluence. However, it does not distinguish between intrahepatic and extrahepatic hilar tumours, and has no clinicopathological basis. This retrospective study examined whether the concept of perihilar cholangiocarcinoma is valid clinically.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is rare but its incidence is rising worldwide. The value of lymph node dissection for ICC is under discussion; the current staging systems do not differentiate between numbers of involved nodes.
Staging is inadequate in up to 70 per cent of patients with gastric cancer in Western countries owing to the small number of lymph nodes dissected during surgery. The aim was to determine whether using the ratio of metastatic to resected lymph nodes (LNR) might improve accuracy.
The pathophysiology and management of epiphrenic diverticula remain controversial. This study investigated the underlying functional abnormalities and long-term results of surgical treatment.
There have been several reports of ischaemic complications after routine laparoscopy. The aim of this review was to investigate the relationship between this oxidative stress and pneumoperitoneum.
Oesophageal anastomotic leakage is associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. The aim of the present study was to assess the feasibility of using temporary self-expanding plastic stents to treat postoperative oesophageal leaks.
Thoracoscopic oesophagectomy was introduced to reduce the morbidity of transthoracic oesophagectomy. The aim was to assess the short- and mid-term results of robot-assisted thoracoscopic oesophagectomy for oesophageal cancer.
The prognostic significance of adrenal metastases (AMs) in patients with colorectal liver metastases (CLMs) remains unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the influence of AMs on long-term outcome and the role of adrenalectomy in patients with CLMs.
Scirrhous gastric carcinoma is characterized by excessive deposition of collagen in the stroma. However, the clinical significance of this fibrosis of the stomach has not been clarified. The aim of this study was to examine the fibrotic mechanism in several histological types of gastric carcinoma, and the combination of MUC1 and collagen type IV as a possible predictor of patient survival.
: The presence of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) independently predicts cardiovascular disease (CVD) and its complications. Levels of plasma markers of fibrin turnover are raised in men with a large AAA (at least 5.5 cm) and predict CVD risk in healthy subjects. This study examined fibrin turnover in men with a small AAA.
While new defects in BRCA1 are still being found, it is unclear whether current breast cancer diagnostics misses many BRCA1-associated cases. A reliable test that is able to indicate the involvement of BRCA1 deficiency in cancer genesis could support decision making in genetic counselling and clinical management. To find BRCA1-specific markers and explore the effectiveness of the current diagnostic strategy, we designed a classification method, validated it and examined whether we could find BRCA1-like breast tumours in a group of patients initially diagnosed as non-BRCA1/2 mutation carriers.
Alcohol increases breast cancer risk. Epidemiological studies suggest folate may modify this relationship.
Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare and scarcely investigated disease. The strongest genetic risk factor for MBC is represented by inherited BRCA2 mutations, whereas the association between MBC and BRCA1 mutations is less clear. MBC appears to be biologically similar to breast cancer in females, however the phenotypic characteristics of BRCA1/2-related MBCs are not yet well elucidated.
Mammographic breast density is an established marker of breast cancer risk, and is hormonally sensitive. Studies suggest that production of the daidzein metabolites equol and O-Desmethylangolensin (ODMA) may be associated with hormones and hormonally mediated factors, but few studies have assessed relationships between the capacity to produce these metabolites and breast density.
For patients with axillary lymph node-negative breast cancer, benefits from adjuvant therapy are smaller than in node-positive disease and thus more selective use is warranted, prompting development of risk profiling to identify those most likely to benefit. Examination of the magnitude and changes in the hazard of failure over time in node-negative breast cancer may also be informative in this regard.
Gliomas and in particular high-grade gliomas (HGG) demonstrate when compared to other non-neural solid cancers amongst the highest levels of tumor angiogenesis (the formation of new blood vessels from pre-existing vasculature).
Brachial artery reactivity in response to shear stress is altered in subjects with hypertension. Since endothelial dysfunction is generalized, we hypothesized that carotid artery (CA) reactivity would also be altered in hypertension.
Stem cell-based therapies have shown great promise in regenerative medicine and continue to generate wide interest in future clinical applications. However, the issue of storage and preservation of stem cells, for future clinical applications, still requires extensive investigation.
The dermal papilla (DP) interacts with epithelial cells for folliculogenesis. For translational research on cell therapies for hair regrowth with cultured human DP cells (hDPCs), a model to evaluate the capacity of hDPCs to induce hair formation is inevitable.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)/serum quotient graphs have been used previously to determine local synthesis in brain of immunoglobulins and C3 complement component. The aim of this study was to use the same technique to construct quotient graphs, or Reibergrams, for the beta globulin C4 and to evaluate the method for assessing intrathecal synthesis in neurological disease.
Randomised controlled trials have shown a beneficial effect of antihypertensive treatment on stroke recurrence. The effect of antihypertensive treatment on survival and recurrence in an unselected sample of the general population, using the General Practice Research Database, was analysed.
Hyperglycemia has been claimed to be associated with hemorrhagic transformation (HT) in patients with acute ischemic stroke treated with thrombolysis. The aim of this study was to assess whether the admission blood glucose level is related to HT in a prospective study in consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), acting in concert with its receptor chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2), promotes recruitment of macrophages into atherosclerotic plaque. We examined whether single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) variants in the MCP-1 or CCR2 genes independently or in combination are associated with carotid artery atherosclerosis in an African American population at increased risk of vascular disease.
An association between versican (CSPG2), perlecan (HSPG2), fibrillin 2 (FBN2) and collagen 4A1 (COL4A1) gene variants and intracranial aneurysms (IA) has been reported in 2 studies analyzing Dutch IA patients. The aim of this study was to verify these associations in a Japanese IA population. In addition, a meta-analysis on the association of these genes and IA for the combined Dutch and Japanese populations was performed.
Selective inhibition of phosphodiesterase type III (PDE III) may be involved in the pathophysiology of vasospasm and a PDE III inhibitor, cilostazol, is thus expected to attenuate vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We tested the therapeutic effects of cilostazol on angiographic and morphological vasospasm.
Activated protein C (APC) is a plasma serine protease with systemic anticoagulant and a wide spectrum of cytoprotective activities that has been proposed as a promising therapy for acute stroke. Therefore, we sought to investigate the role of endogenous APC in human ischemic stroke.
Current clinical tools to identify lacunar infarct patients at risk of deterioration are inadequate, and imaging techniques to predict fluctuation and deterioration would be of value. We sought to determine the occurrence of MRI perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI) abnormalities in lacunes, and whether they help predict clinical and radiological outcome.
Poststroke depression (PSD) is one of the most important long-term adverse psychosocial consequences in stroke survivors. Our objective was to assess the prevalence of PSD in Brazilian stroke patients and identify significant associated factors.
There are conflicting evidences on endothelial function in lacunar infarction. This may be attributed to the effects of risk factors on the vascular smooth muscle. To test endothelial function only in patients with lacunar infarction, we evaluated the endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilatation of the brachial artery.
The European Registers Of Stroke (EROS) project aimed to assess outcomes of stroke care across Europe, relating these to both case mix information from disease-specific population registers and the quality of stroke care provided at each centre. This included comparing information on quality of care with direct observation of the stroke care process in 4 centres.
Brain atrophy and white-matter lesions (WML) are common features at cerebral MRI of both normal and demented elderly people. In a population-based study of 1,792 elderly subjects aged 65-80 years, free of dementia, who had a cerebral MRI at entry, we investigated the relationship between WML volume and brain atrophy markers estimated by hippocampal, gray matter (GM) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) volumes.
Triptolide, an active compound of Radix Tripterygium wilfordii, is immunosuppressive, cartilage protective and anti-inflammatory both in human and animal studies of various inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, but its therapeutic mechanism remains unclear. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of triptolide on cartilage cytokines in the CIA model.
Acylated ghrelin (AG) is a physiological GH secretion amplifier, in part stimulating GHRH neurones and antagonizing somatostatin activity. In humans, AG is one of the most potent pharmacological stimuli of GH secretion and, unlike GHRH, is refractory to the inhibitory effect of glucose, free fatty acids (FFA) and somatostatin. Somatotroph secretion is also profoundly modulated by the adrenergic system. Indeed, beta-adrenergic agonists abolish spontaneous and GHRH-stimulated GH secretion. Based on these data, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of beta adrenergic agonism on the GH response to AG.
Recent case reports detail the successful use of temozolomide in the management of aggressive pituitary tumours. O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a DNA repair protein that counteracts the effect of temozolomide.
Some of the cardiovascular and renal abnormalities seen in overt hypothyroidism have also been reported in subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH). Short-term L-T4 replacement in SCH improves cardiovascular risk markers and reduces carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), a surrogate marker of atherosclerosis. The haemodynamic and renal effects of L-T4 replacement in SCH are poorly understood.
Apart from their role in insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis, the incretin hormones glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) exert a number of extra-pancreatic effects which in the case of GIP remain largely unknown.
Cerebral white matter hyperintensity (WMH) is a common abnormality in brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and is known to be associated with ischaemic stroke. Previous studies revealed that the risk factors for cerebral WMH were age, female gender, hypertension and diabetes. In this study we examined the association between cerebral WMH and metabolic syndrome, a cluster of hypertension, glucose intolerance, abdominal obesity and dyslipidaemia.
We have previously demonstrated peripheral nerve enlargement in acromegaly.
Sex steroid hormones may play a role in the pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Adjustment Disorder is a condition strongly tied to acute and chronic stress. Despite clinical suggestion of a large prevalence in the general population and the high frequency of its diagnosis in the clinical settings, there has been relatively little research reported and, consequently, very few hints about its treatments.
Although the molecules involved in mitosis are becoming better characterized, we still lack an understanding of the emergent mechanical properties of the mitotic spindle. For example, we cannot explain how spindle length is determined. To gain insight into how forces are generated and responded to in the spindle, we developed a method to apply controlled mechanical compression to metaphase mitotic spindles in living mammalian cells while monitoring microtubules and kinetochores by fluorescence microscopy.
Centrosome orientation toward the leading edge of migrating cells depends on dynein and microtubules (MTs), as well as a number of signaling factors at the leading edge. However, centrosomes are maintained at the cell center during orientation in fibroblasts, suggesting that factors working at sites other than the leading edge may also be involved.
The Rad51 recombinase assembles on DNA to execute homologous DNA recombination (HR). This process is essential to repair replication-associated genomic lesions before cells enter mitosis, but how it is started and stopped during the cell cycle remains poorly understood. Rad51 assembly is regulated by the breast cancer suppressor Brca2, via its evolutionarily conserved BRC repeats, and a distinct carboxy (C)-terminal motif whose biological function is uncertain. Using "hit-and-run" gene targeting to insert single-codon substitutions into the avian Brca2 locus, we report here a previously unrecognized role for the C-terminal motif.
HIV treatment programs in Africa typically approach all enrolling patients uniformly. Growing numbers of patients are antiretroviral experienced. Defining patients on the basis of antiretroviral experience may inform enrollment practices, particularly if medical outcomes differ.
Smoking prevalence is very high among people living with HIV/AIDS, and smoking is riskier for them than for HIV-seronegative people. Promoting smoking cessation among HIV-infected people is therefore an emerging public health priority. Raising cigarette prices is usually considered as one of the most effective ways to reduce smoking, but its effectiveness has never been studied among HIV-infected smokers.
Triglycyl lysine vasopressin (terlipressin, Glypressin) is a potent vasoconstrictive drug which became popular because of its prolonged duration of action, ease of administration and lower incidence of side effects. Ischemic complications are rare but may be life threatening.
Dermatologists see patients with oral mucosal conditions.
Treatment of depigmented skin is an unmet medical need.
We describe the previously unreported use of isolated limb infusion (ILI) to treat extensive, bilateral plantar warts in a 54-year-old female. The warts had covered the weight-bearing surfaces of both feet for 10 years and had failed to respond to all previous treatments.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions characterized by abnormally enlarged capillary cavities without intervening brain parenchyma. Although often asymptomatic, seizures, cerebral haemorrhages and focal neurological deficits are well-documented complications. Mutations in the CCM1 (7q21-22), CCM2 (7p13-15) and CCM3 (3q25.2-27) genes have been identified in familial CCM. In rare instances, the association of congenital hyperkeratotic cutaneous capillary-venous malformations (HCCVMs) with CCM1 has been reported.
Treatment of nail psoriasis remains a challenge.
The modulatory domain of the human androgen receptor (AR) gene contains a polymorphic CAG repeat coding for a polyglutamine tract which is inversely correlated with transcriptional activity of the AR. Androgens acting through the AR play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of acne vulgaris. We therefore investigated the relationship between CAG repeat polymorphism in the AR gene and acne susceptibility.
Few data suggest oat-based cosmetics may cause allergic reactions in atopic subjects, especially when sensitized to cereals.
Adolescence is a period of life with its own unique characteristics.
Efalizumab, albeit highly efficient in psoriasis treatment, displays a slower rate of clearance when compared to anti-tumor-necrosis-factor-alpha drugs. It has been suggested that a combination of treatments might accelerate efalizumab response.
Hospitals consider themselves to be exposed to intense competition for patient admissions. Yet their competitive performance is only rarely assessed in terms of patient satisfaction.
The prevalence of thyroid nodules in a healthy population is high: in the German Papillon study, nationwide ultrasound screening of more than 90 000 people using 7.5 MHz scanners revealed the presence of thyroid nodules in 33% of the normal population. A study employing more sensitive 13 MHz scanners has not been conducted so far.
High concentrations of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-c) are associated with lower cardiovascular risk, but it is not known whether this is also the case in the presence of intensive low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) therapy. In this study, we determined the relationship between HDL-c and new non-fatal or fatal vascular events in patients with various manifestations of clinical evident vascular disease and evaluated whether this relationship is modified by LDL-c levels.
Previously performed in vitro studies suggested that gravitational stress may alter functions of immune cells. This study investigated the in vivo effects of parabolic flight manoeuvres as a short-term model of micro- and hypergravity on the cytotoxic and microbicidal polymorphonuclear leucocyte (PMN) functions as the key element of innate immunity.
Postprandial hyperlipidaemia is known to be a high-risk factor for atherosclerotic disease because of rapid and lasting accumulations of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and remnants. The Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1) protein acts as an intestinal cholesterol transporter and ezetimibe, which inhibits NPC1L1, has been used in patients with hypercholesterolaemia. We investigated effects of ezetimibe on fasting lipid and lipoprotein profiles and postprandial hyperlipidaemia in patients with type IIb hyperlipidaemia.
Reduced systolic reserve on effort may be present in subjects with hypertension but no evidence of hypertensive cardiomyopathy. We assessed the determinants of abnormal cardiac performance during exercise in hypertensive patients without left ventricular hypertrophy.
Obesity has been associated with significant abnormalities of the cardiac autonomic regulation. However, the precise impact of increasing body weight on cardiac autonomic function and the metabolic and hormonal contributors to these changes are presently unclear. The aim of our study was to explore in subjects with increasing values of body mass index (BMI) the alterations of cardiac autonomic function and to establish the potential role of various metabolic and hormonal contributors to these alterations.
Development of factor VIII inhibitors is a serious complication in haemophilia A patients. Recombinant factor VIIa (rVIIa) is clinically effective, but its effects on haemostatic system need still to be fully elucidated.
CD163 is a monocyte/macrophage specific receptor whose soluble form (sCD163) is elevated in inflammatory diseases. Obesity is associated with chronic inflammation and low adiponectin, an anti-inflammatory adipokine. Adiponectin, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-4-ribofuranoside (AICAR) and metformin activate the AMP-kinase that exerts anti-inflammatory effects, and the influence of adiponectin and these drugs on monocytic CD163 was analysed, and cellular and sCD163 were determined in obesity and type 2 diabetes.
Although amiodarone plus angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) and catheter ablation may improve sinus rhythm maintenance of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF), their clinical efficacies have not been compared. This prospective cohort study was designed to compare clinical efficacy of catheter ablation and amiodarone plus losartan on sinus rhythm maintenance in patients with paroxysmal AF.
A wide variety of systemic lesions have been seen in patients with autoimmune pancreatitis. The pulmonary involvement of autoimmune pancreatitis was analysed to clarify the clinicopathological features of pulmonary lesions in comparison with pulmonary sarcoidosis.
Clinicians and health professionals are increasingly challenged to understand and consider the different health needs of women and men. The increase of gender awareness and the expanding science of gender medicine will affect more and more clinical practice. This review addresses gender-specific aspects in metabolic disorders and related complications, which represent an increasing burden of this century and a great challenge to public health.
There are only three cases of unbalanced translocation (X;1) reported in childhood in the literature, while no such phenotypic information is available in adults.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability, which will increase further with longer lifetime and higher average weight of the population.
Treating HIV-infected children remains a challenge due to a lack of treatment options, appropriate drug formulations and, in countries with limited resources, insufficient access to diagnostic tests and treatment.
Emedastine difumarate, a selective histamine-H1 receptor antagonist and effective antiallergic agent, inhibits various clinical symptoms of allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis, urticaria, allergic dermatitis, pruritus cutaneous, and prurigo. In addition to greater efficacy than other antihistamines, emedastine difumarate produces no adverse cardiovascular effects and exhibits minimal anticholinergic activity. Moreover, a recent study revealed that the effect of emedastine difumarate on inhibition of histamine-induced collagen synthesis in vitro was greater in dermal fibroblasts than in nasal mucosa fibroblasts. This result indicates that there are tissue-specific effects of emedastine difumarate and that it may be more effective for treating fibrosis in skin than in nasal mucosa. However, the mechanism and role of tissue remodeling is less well established for allergic skin diseases and allergic conjunctivitis, in comparison to respiratory allergic diseases.
Alcohol abuse has many harmful effects on human body. This study aimed to investigate the role of water extracts of thyme (Thymus vulgaris) and ginger (Zingiber officinale Roscoe) as natural product extracts to detoxify the injuries of alcohol abuse on liver and brain of mice.
Molecular phylogenies are being published increasingly and many biologists rely on the most recent topologies. However, different phylogenetic trees often contain conflicting results and contradict significant background data. Not knowing how reliable traditional knowledge is, a crucial question concerns the quality of newly produced molecular data. The information content of DNA alignments is rarely discussed, as quality statements are mostly restricted to the statistical support of clades. Here we present a case study of a recently published mollusk phylogeny that contains surprising groupings, based on five genes and 108 species, and we apply new or rarely used tools for the analysis of the information content of alignments and for the filtering of noise (masking of random-like alignment regions, split decomposition, phylogenetic networks, quartet mapping).
Partial glossectomy is the main treatment for tongue carcinoma. The resection of the tongue, which is a very vascularised tissue, requires a good hemostasis. The advantage of the harmonic scalpel is in combining sectioning and hemostasis in one single instrument, allowing a bloodless dissection of soft tissue. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the benefits and risks when using a harmonic scalpel in partial glossectomy.
Low levels of plasma arachidonoylethanolamide (anandamide) (AEA) (&lt;2 nM) are associated with a successful early pregnancy in the mouse, and are thought to be regulated by sex steroid hormones. A similar association in the human may exist, although it has never been studied. The objective of this study was to investigate plasma AEA concentrations from the time of ovulation to implantation in pregnant and non-pregnant women, and whether AEA is hormonally regulated.
The objective of this study was to determine the optimal gestational age at which to establish the location and viability of an early pregnancy using transvaginal ultrasonography (TVS).
Three variants of the human INHA gene have been reported to be associated with premature ovarian failure (POF) in case-control studies involving a small number of patients and controls. Since inhibin has a fundamental role in the control of ovarian function, it is important to establish the relevance of the reported variants for disease risk.
The hormonal milieu that characterizes pregnancy may determine profound modifications of ovarian endometriomas leading to lesions mimicking malignancy. In this study, we report on our experience and perform a review of the literature on this issue.
Pilot data have indicated that both doxycycline alone and mifepristone combined with ethinyl estradiol (EE) are effective in stopping episodes of bleeding in Implanon users with troublesome bleeding. We compared four treatments against a placebo in Implanon users and tested whether repeated treatment improved subsequent bleeding patterns.
ACTR # 012605000206628.
Although the age-effect on in vitro fertilization outcomes has been well documented, data on donor insemination are scarce hampering accurate patient counseling. This cohort study therefore aims at analyzing cumulative delivery rates after donor insemination for various indications.
Previous studies examining experiences of infertility focused mainly on the aspect of loss but neglected the possible gains realized through surviving the experience of infertility. The success rate of IVF remains relatively low, and we used the strengths perspective to examine adjustment after unsuccessful treatment. This study aims to provide an in-depth description of the gains perceived by Chinese men and women and how they re-constructed their lives after unsuccessful IVF treatment.
Anti-Mllerian hormone (AMH) has been proposed as a clinical predictor of improvements in reproductive function following weight loss in overweight and obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). This study aimed to assess whether baseline and/or change in AMH levels with weight loss predict improvements in reproductive function in overweight and obese women with PCOS.
ACTRN12606000198527.
Most meiotic studies in metaphase spermatocytes have been carried out with classic cytogenetic techniques. The aim of this work was to adjust the centromere-specific multicolour fluorescence in situ hybridization (cenM-FISH) procedure to spermatocyte metaphases I and II in order to improve the identification of meiotic chromosome abnormalities.
Uterine leiomyomas are widely prevalent and frequently cause menorrhagia. The major therapeutic option today is hysterectomy. Medical options are of highest interest.
Controlling nuclear maturation during oocyte culture might improve nuclear-cytoplasmic maturation synchrony. In the present study, the quality of mouse and human cumulus-enclosed oocytes (CEOs) was examined after a two-step culture consisting of a three-dimensional prematuration culture (3D-PMC), followed by in vitro maturation (IVM).
Misoprostol is widely used in obstetrics and gynaecology for medical abortion, cervical priming and induction of labour. To aid the design of effective and safe regimens, we have investigated the pharmacokinetic parameters after the vaginal or sublingual administration of repeated doses of 400 microg of misoprostol.
This study presents findings from a large sample of donor offspring who are aware of the nature of their conception. Importantly, this is one of the first studies to compare the views of offspring told of their origins during childhood to those who found out during adulthood.
Doxycycline (Dox) has a number of non-antibiotic properties. One of them is the inhibition of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of Dox in a rat endometriosis model.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have opened up a new area of research in biomedicine. The efficiency of hESC derivation from frozen poor-quality embryos is low and normally achieved by plating embryos on mouse or human foreskin feeders (HFFs). We attempted to optimize embryo survival and hESC derivation.
Clomiphene citrate (CC) response in anovulatory women is difficult to predict and patient-tailored treatment would benefit patient care and time-management. The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of the follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) Ser680Ser-polymorphism as a predictor for CC response.
Progesterone is an endogenous immunomodulator that suppresses T cell activation during pregnancy. The stimulation of membrane progesterone receptors (mPRs) would seem to be the cause of rapid non-genomic responses in human peripheral T cells, such as an elevation of intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) and decreased intracellular pH (pH(i)). Mifepristone (RU486) produces mixed agonist/antagonist effects on immune cells compared with progesterone. We explored whether RU486 is an antagonist to mPRs and can block rapid non-genomic responses and the induction by phytohemagglutinin (PHA) of cell proliferation.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex genetic disorder. Multiple functional polymorphisms have been identified in genes that regulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis that regulates ovarian function. The present study aims to examine the influence of genetic variants of the HPG-axis on the severity of clinical features of PCOS and disease susceptibility.
Comparison of male versus female meiotic segregation patterns for Robertsonian translocation (RT) carriers with similar genetic background has rarely been reported in mammalian species.
In mouse endometrium, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) is a key enzyme controlling nuclear localization of cyclin D1. We developed a functional model of xenografted human endometrium to test whether similar mechanisms are operative in the human by using Lithium chloride (LiCl), an inhibitor of GSK3beta.
The purpose of this study was to investigate attitudes towards the donation of surplus embryos among couples with cryopreserved embryos/zygotes, and to identify correlates associated with attitudes toward the destinations of surplus embryos/zygotes.
Elevated free fatty acids (FFAs) are involved in insulin resistance in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). We investigated the role of fatty acid transporter CD36, hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) and adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) in regulation of lipolysis in insulin-resistant women with PCOS.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are interesting models for the study of epigenetic mechanisms. Epigenetic stability in hESCs is critical to ensure the quality and safety of these cells in regenerative medicine. One of the first measurable epigenetic phenomena is X chromosome inactivation (XCI).
Reliable age determination of first-trimester human embryos and fetuses is an important parameter for clinical use and basic science. Age determination by ultrasound or morphometric parameters of embryos 4-6 weeks post conception (p.c.) have been questioned, and more accurate methods are required. Data on whether and how maternal smoking and alcohol consumption influence embryonic and fetal foot growth is also lacking.
It is becoming increasingly evident that the eutopic endometrium of women with endometriosis shows certain genetic alterations which are not found in the endometrium of disease-free women. The aim of the study was to compare the expression level of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) tumor suppressor and oncogene-related genes in the endometrium of women with and without endometriosis as well as in ovarian endometriosis.
In New Zealand, embryo donation to others was approved in late 2005 and follows strict guidelines. To date, few donations have proceeded. Given the novelty of embryo donation and New Zealand's guidelines around donation, this study explores how potential recipients in New Zealand made meaning of embryo donation.
It is plausible that a couple's ability to achieve the desired number of children is limited by biological fertility, especially if childbearing is postponed. Family size has declined and semen quality may have deteriorated in much of Europe, although studies have found an increase rather than a decrease in couple fertility.
U.S. healthcare organizations are confronted with numerous and varied transformational strategies promising improvements along all dimensions of quality and performance. This article examines the peer-reviewed literature from the U.S. for evidence of effectiveness among three current popular transformational strategies: Six Sigma, Lean/Toyota Production System, and Studer's Hardwiring Excellence.
In Morocco, acute aluminum phosphide poisoning (AAlPP) is a serious health care problem. It results in high mortality rate despite the progress of critical care.
The objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is used commonly for assessment of psychiatry trainees but has been used less for teaching. AIM AND SETTING: This study describes the adaptation of the OSCE method for training purposes in a postgraduate psychiatry training center in India and the initial findings with regard to trainee performance.
Office hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy is usually the first investigation for abnormal uterine bleeding and other uterine diseases.
Despite the attention the situation of the Roma in Central and Eastern Europe has received in the context of European Union enlargement, research on their access to health services is very limited, in particular with regard to child health services.
As poverty and hunger are basic yardsticks of underdevelopment and destitution, the need for reliable statistics in this domain is self-evident. While the measurement of poverty through surveys is relatively well documented in the literature, for hunger, information is much scarcer, particularly for adults, and very different methodologies are applied for children and adults. Our paper seeks to improve on this practice in two ways. One is that we estimate the prevalence of undernutrition in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) for both children and adults based on anthropometric data available at province or district level, and secondly, we estimate the mean calorie intake and implied calorie gap for SSA, also using anthropometric data on the same geographical aggregation level.
Tsetse flies are the primary vector for African trypanosomiasis, a disease that affects both humans and livestock across the continent of Africa. In 1973 tsetse flies were estimated to inhabit 22% of Kenya; by 1996 that number had risen to roughly 34%. Efforts to control the disease were hampered by a lack of information and costs associated with the identification of infested areas. Given changing spatial and demographic factors, a model that can predict suitable tsetse fly habitat based on land cover and climate change is critical to efforts aimed at controlling the disease. In this paper we present a generalizable method, using a modified Mapcurves goodness of fit test, to evaluate the existing publicly available land cover products to determine which products perform the best at identifying suitable tsetse fly land cover.
C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) is involved in the regulation of the inflammatory response. Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) may arise as the result of a chronic inflammatory process which is influenced by genetic predisposition. The CCR5 gene is associated with a 32 base pair deletion (the Delta32 polymorphism). The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the CCR5 Delta32 polymorphism in the development of AAA.
Although attention to human rights in Indonesia has been improving over the past decade, the human rights situation of persons with mental disorders is still far from satisfactory. The purpose of this paper is to examine the legal framework for protection of human rights of persons with mental disorder and the extent to which Indonesia's international obligations concerning the right to health are being met.
There is no study examining the relationships between vital capacity and diabetes or metabolic risk factors in lean subjects.
Birth of the first child is a major life event, possibly influencing personality. The physiological and emotional processes that start in pregnant women have a major impact on the evolving mother-child relationship. Knowledge about changes in personality during pregnancy and motherhood is scarce.
The use of preceptors to develop novice nurses' clinical skills has been well documented in the literature. However, there is little literature focused on preceptor involvement to develop novice nurses' critical thinking.
Long-term conditions are distressing for patients and costly for healthcare services. Government policy in western countries has increasingly focussed on more integrated and pro-active management of patients with multiple long-term conditions to maintain the ability of the aging population to function independently. The role of community matrons has been introduced in England in an attempt to address these issues.
An ageing nursing workforce has forced the need for recruitment and retention of nurses to be an important feature of workforce planning in many countries. However, whilst there is a growing awareness of the factors that influence the retention of nurses within secondary care services, little is known about those that influence retention of nurses in primary and community care. Little is known about the age profile of such nurses or the impact of the ageing nursing workforce on individual nursing specialities in the England.
The emergence of the OSCE, one form of evaluation of clinical competence used in medicine, is gaining more scrutiny and consideration in nursing education.
There is little research focused on the experience of fatigue in children. Previous work has focused primarily on children living with cancer. It is necessary to clarify and refine the concept, and add to the knowledge base that supports ongoing theoretical work in order to improve the clinical care of children with long-term conditions who experience fatigue.
Conducting research with ethnic minority populations has accentuated the challenges inherent in research, particularly when the populations participating are considered 'vulnerable' due to additional variables such as low levels of income.
Severely mentally ill individuals experience chronic medical illnesses at a rate greater than the general population. When hospitalized in non-psychiatric settings, they tend to be experienced as 'difficult' by nurses and to have longer lengths of stay.
Caregiving for older relatives is a stressful responsibility that detracts from the quality of life of female caregivers and imposes barriers to practising healthy behaviors. Recent studies on caregiving responsibilities have been primarily conducted in Western cultural contexts, with few studies of Chinese groups.
A number of studies were located in the nursing literature that focused on using poetry to help students develop empathy for patients, to teach students to reflect on their own practice, and to assist them in developing self-understanding. No studies were found that described the use of poetry reading as a way of teaching the skill of interpretive analysis. There are, however, a number of parallels between the principles of poetry reading and qualitative analysis that suggest that this method of teaching would be successful.
Various factors affect women's choice of contraceptive methods. One of these factors is socioeconomic status, which may have an effect on the practice of coitus interruptus by women. Socioeconomic status refers to the relative position of a family or individual in a hierarchical social structure based on their access to or control over wealth, prestige and power.
Nurses are involved in care more than any other healthcare professionals and they play a central role in advocating for patients and families. It is difficult to obtain a clear definition of advocacy, yet the concepts of advocacy and paternalism must be compared, contrasted, and discussed extensively. In many situations, only a thin line distinguishes advocacy from paternalism.
The rate of caesarean section births is increasing worldwide in industrialized countries. Reasons given for the increase include women's characteristics, care providers' attitudes, prevention of pelvic floor disorders and adverse outcomes.
The high rate of violence in the healthcare sector supports the need for greater surveillance efforts.
Encountering abused women can have emotional, cognitive and behavioural influences on nurses, known as vicarious traumatization. They may feel incompetent to deal with such an overwhelming problem and may avoid screening survivors of abuse. Thus, nurses treating these survivors need to be aware of their attitudes, emotions and differential responses during these interactions.
Rehabilitation for patients with hip fracture consists of training in hospital and/or in a rehabilitation unit, and on their own at home with assistance from community care staff. It is important for hospitals to provide methods of care that can safeguard these older patients' physical function and potential for independent living.
Adapting to a new culture can be overwhelming for many nurses working in foreign countries. Currently, the Republic of Ireland appears to rely heavily on migrant nurses because of persistent nursing shortages over the last decade. To date, there is little research on how the integration process affects migrant nurses in Ireland.
Research indicates that young people's knowledge of diabetes may minimize their health complications, because with greater knowledge they may engage in more effective management practices and adherence.
Irritable bowel syndrome is characterized by abdominal pain, diarrhoea and/or constipation, distension and bloating. Such symptoms are stigmatized in western societies. Patients may experience negative attitudes from healthcare personnel, and they can feel helpless and frustrated trying to control symptoms.
Obesity is currently the most important nutritional disease of children and adolescents. To date, several attempts to achieve weight loss in children have been made, but little is known about their effects on improving eating behaviours.
Although home peritoneal dialysis improves the patient's quality of life, it has both physiological and psychosocial disadvantages. These disadvantages, along with the experience of chronic disease (end-stage renal disease), create strong feelings of stress and uncertainty. Few studies have examined the correlation between the peritoneal dialysis experience and this level of uncertainty.
Rapid-cycling (RC) is a course modifier of bipolar disorder which often implicates a poor prognosis. However, the relationship of RC with suicidal features as a marker of impairment has been understudied.
The prevalence of depression is very high among adult women in Pakistan but it is not known whether such a high prevalence occurs in younger women. We aimed to assess the prevalence and correlates of depression in 16 to 18-year old unmarried women in Pakistan.
It has been suggested that antidepressants may have neuroprotective abilities but it has newer been investigated lately whether treatment with antidepressants reduces the risk of dementia.
Recent community and clinical epidemiological studies have indicated that bipolar spectrum disorder (BSD) is a common illness. No community-based epidemiological study of BSD has been conducted in Chinese and other Asian populations.
Bilateral electroconvulsive therapy (BLECT) is useful in affective disorders and schizophrenia. Studies on electrical dose during BLECT are sparse. The Royal College of Psychiatrists recommends the use of electrical dose at 50-100% above seizure threshold. We studied the impact of change of BLECT practice from using threshold-level to 1.5 times threshold-level electrical dose in patients with depression, mania and schizophrenia.
Research into the role of migraine in somatic symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) has long been neglected; hence, the aim of this study was to compare the impact of migraine and anxiety comorbidities on the somatic symptoms of patients with MDD.
There is a lack of studies that assess whether the DSM-IV criteria for Major Depressive Episode (MDE) that use a diagnostic threshold are valid for the elderly and whether each symptom of depression contributes equally to impairment in this group.
The purpose of this study was to estimate the contribution of genetic, common- and unique environmental factors in the aetiology of unipolar major depression (MD), and to investigate whether the unipolar depressive disorders; MD, atypical depression/depression NOS, dysthymia and depressive adjustment disorder can be viewed as various expressions of an underlying genetic commonality.
To investigate prospectively over one year, the extent to which greater exposure to negative life events, greater use of more negative coping strategies, and less use of positive coping strategies and an optimistic thinking style, predicts the onset of depressive symptoms among adolescents.
Several studies have reported criminal and violent behaviour in people with schizophrenia but few have investigated the association between affective disorders and violent behaviour.
Overt hypothyroidism is often recognized as an important cause of depression, but in sub-clinical cases, results are inconsistent and most prior studies have involved small samples.
Atypical antipsychotics may have efficacy as augmentation therapy in treatment resistant depression (TRD) but evidence is limited.
Both ethnicity and lifestyle may contribute to these abnormalities. High prevalences of obesity and metabolic disturbances in patients with bipolar disorder (BD) have been reported in western countries. However, reports about the prevalences in Asian countries remain scant.
Untreated major depressive disorder (MDD) is a major risk factor for suicide, but some data suggest antidepressants may be associated with increased suicidal ideation (SI) in some depressed patients. The purpose of this study was to determine whether, and in whom, treatment of MDD is associated with increased or emergent SI.
While there is evidence to suggest that major depressive disorder (MDD) is associated with structural brain abnormalities, the precise nature of these abnormalities remains unclear.
Bipolar affective disorder (BAD) is a psychiatric illness characterized by episodes of mania and depression. Although the etiology is not clear, epidemiological studies suggest it is a result of an interaction of genetic and environmental factors. Despite of enormous efforts and abundant studies conducted, none has yet been identified definitively a gene susceptible to bipolar disorder.
Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), an atherogenic component of oxidized low-density lipoprotein, has been shown to induce the attenuation of endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation. Although benidipine, a dihydropyridine-calcium channel blocker, is known to have endothelial protective effects, the effects of benidipine on LPC-induced endothelial dysfunction remain unknown. We examined the effects of benidipine on the impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxation induced by LPC.
Resveratrol is a non flavonoid polyphenol compound present in many plants and fruits and, at especially high concentrations, in the grape berries of Vitis vinifera. This compound has a strong bioactivity and its cytoprotective action has been demonstrated, however at high concentrations the drug exhibits also an effective anti-proliferative action. We recently showed its ability to abolish the effects of oxidative stress in cultured cells. In this work we assayed the bioactivity of resveratrol as antiproliferative and antiviral drug in cultured fibroblasts. Studies by other Authors showed that this natural compound inhibits the proliferation of different viruses such as herpes simplex, varicella-zoster and influenza A. The results presented here show an evident toxic activity of the drug at high concentrations, on the other hand at sub-cytotoxic concentrations, resveratrol can effectively inhibit the synthesis of polyomavirus DNA. A possible interpretation is that, due to the damage caused by resveratrol to the plasma membrane, the transfer of the virus from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus, may be hindered thus inhibiting the production of viral DNA.
The feasibility and safety of pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) combined with long segmental mesentericoportal vein (MPV; &gt;5 cm) resection and end-to-end anastomosis without graft has rarely been demonstrated.
Extrahepatic biliary obstruction with a mass in the common bile duct and elevated CA 19-9 level is often due to cholangiocarcinoma.
Adequate stratification and scoring of risk is essential to optimise clinical practice; the ability to predict operative mortality and morbidity is important. This review aims to outline the essential elements of available risk scoring systems in patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery and their differences in order to enable effective utilisation.
Outcome and morbidity of redo antireflux surgery are suggested to be less satisfactory than those of primary surgery. Studies reporting on redo surgery, however, are usually much smaller than those of primary surgery. The aim of this study was to summarize the currently available literature on redo antireflux surgery.
Identifying gastroesophageal reflux disease as the cause of respiratory and laryngeal complaints is difficult and depends largely on the measurements of increased acid exposure in the upper esophagus or ideally the pharynx. The current method of measuring pharyngeal pH environment is inaccurate and problematic due to artifacts. A newly designed pharyngeal pH probe to avoid these artifacts has been introduced. The aim of this study was to use this probe to measure the pharyngeal pH environment in normal subjects and establish pH thresholds to identify abnormality.
This study analyzed indication and outcome regarding operative re-intervention following pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) and pancreatogastrostomy (PG) with special emphasis on complications related to redo surgery.
The prognosis of hilar cholangiocarcinoma is dismal although aggressive surgery including major hepatectomy has been performed. The aim of this study was to clarify useful prognostic factors and the usefulness of gemcitabine-based adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma who had undergone aggressive surgical resection.
Neoadjuvant treatment strategies have been developed to improve survival of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer. Since only patients with major histopathological response benefit from this therapy, predictive markers are needed. We examined a panel of selected gene polymorphisms to predict response to neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, 36 Gy) in esophageal cancer patients.
Primary sclerosing cholangitits (PSC) is a progressive fibrosing cholangiopathy eventually leading to end-stage liver disease (ESLD). While literature for deceased donor liver transplantation (DDLT) for PSC abounds, only a few reports describe live donor liver transplant (LDLT) in the setting of PSC. We present a single-center experience on survival outcomes and disease recurrence for LDLT and DDLT for ESLD secondary to PSC.
Mutations of KRAS are known to occur in periampullary and ampullary adenomas and carcinomas. However, nothing is known about NRAS, HRAS, BRAF, and PIK3CA mutations in these tumors. While oncogenic BRAF contributes to the tumorigenesis of both pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms/carcinomas (IPMN/IPMC), PIK3CA mutations were only detected in IPMN/IPMC. This study aimed to elucidate possible roles of BRAF and PIK3CA in the development of ampullary and periampullary adenomas and carcinomas.
Barrett's esophagus (BE), a squamous-to-columnar metaplasia, may originate from growth-promoting mutations in metaplastic stem cells. Nucleostemin is a protein highly expressed in undifferentiated embryonic stem cells. The objectives of this study were to explore the potential role of nucleostemin in the pathogenesis of BE METHODS: The expression profiles of 30,968 genes were compared between BE and normal esophageal tissues (n = 6 in each group) by using oligo microarray. Three siRNA plasmid expression vectors against nucleostemin, pRNAi-1, pRNAi-2, and pRNAi-3, were constructed and transfected into HT29 cells. In addition, HT29 cells were exposed to 100-1,000 microM chenodeoxycholic acid (CDC), a bile acid, for 2, 12, and 24 h, and then messenger RNA and protein expressions of nucleostemin and CDX2 were determined by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in the United States. This study characterizes one of the largest national registries of familial PC (FPC) and sporadic PC (SPC), focusing on demographics, clinical factors, self-reported environmental and occupational lifetime exposures, and survival status.
Reported risk factors for PC include advancing age, a family history of PC, high-risk inherited syndromes, cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoking, exposure to occupational and environmental carcinogens, African-American race, high fat/high cholesterol diet, obesity, chronic pancreatitis, and diabetes mellitus.
Adequate lymph node harvest from colorectal cancer specimens has become a standard of care, influencing both staging and survival. To improve lymph node harvests at our hospital, a pathology assistant was trained to meticulously harvest lymph nodes from colorectal cancer specimens. An analysis of trends in lymph node harvests over time is presented.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the commonest inherited life-threatening disease in Caucasians. With increased longevity, more patients with CF are developing gastrointestinal complications including the distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (DIOS), in which ileocecal obstruction is caused by viscid mucofeculent material. The optimal management of DIOS is uncertain.
Computed tomography (CT) is the most readily available imaging tool for diagnosis of postoperative lower gastrointestinal tract (LGIT) leak. The accuracy and sensitivity of CT for diagnosing a leak from a hollow viscous or anastomotic bowel leakage are still not well established. This retrospective study was conducted in order to define the role of CT in this setting.
Obesity and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) are increasingly important health problems. Previous studies of the relationship between obesity and GERD focus on indirect manifestations of GERD. Little is known about the association between obesity and objectively measured esophageal acid exposure. The aim of this study is to quantify the relationship between body mass index (BMI) and 24-h esophageal pH measurements and the status of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) in patients with reflux symptoms.
Portal vein embolization is an accepted method to increase the future remnant liver preoperatively. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of preoperative portal vein embolization on liver volume and function 3 months after major liver resection.
If proven feasible and safe, Natural Orifice Translumenal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) would still need acceptance by surgeons if it were to become a mainstream approach.
The presentation and outcome of patients with acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) of the pancreas compared to the more common ductal cell adenocarcinoma (DCA) may be distinct. This study combines the experience with ACC from multiple academic institutions to better understand its natural history and outcomes.
Clinical practice guidelines (CPG) are meant to consider important values such as patient preferences.
Although modest improvements in colorectal cancer (CRC) screening utilization have occurred, rates remain low among Latinos. It is unclear whether acculturation plays a role in the utilization of CRC screening.
Pulse pressure (PP) values increase with age. The impact of PP on mortality in elderly patients has not been established.
Internal medicine ambulatory training redesign, including recommendations to increase ambulatory training, is a focus of national discussion. Residents' and program directors' perceptions about ambulatory training models are unknown.
Prescription drug costs are a major component of health care expenditures, yet resources to support evidence-based prescribing are not widely available.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00788346.
A difficult to manage comorbid condition, like chronic pain, could adversely affect the delivery of recommended care for other serious health problems, such as hypertension.
Self-management support is an important component of improving chronic care delivery.
Clinicians' discussions about hospice with patients and families are important as a means of communicating end-of-life options.
In the United States, public health insurance is available for nearly all persons with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Little is known about the extent of health insurance coverage for persons with non-dialysis dependent chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Research on the outcomes of pre-clinical curricula for clinical skills development is needed to assess their influence on medical student performance in clerkships.
Although others have reported national disparities in the quality of diabetes care between the Veterans Affairs (VA) and private health care delivery systems, it is not known whether these differences persist among internal medicine resident providers in academic settings.
Little is known about factors contributing to the career decisions of internal medicine residents.
Undertreatment of osteoporosis has been recognized as a common problem in selected patient subgroups. However, primary prevention has been hampered by limited risk assessment tools that can be applied to large populations.
A sub-optimal intrauterine environment alters the trajectory of fetal development with profound effects on life-time health. Altered methylation, a proposed epigenetic mechanism responsible for these changes, has been studied in non-primate species but not nonhuman primates. We tested the hypotheses that global methylation in fetal baboon demonstrates organ specificity, gestational age specificity, and changes with maternal nutritional status.
The vast majority of non-human primates used for experimental activities are purpose-bred. However, in case of particular procedures or specific projects, it may still be necessary to use animals captured in the wild.
The aim of this study was to compare cardiorespiratory and behavioral profile of a new alpha 2-adrenoceptor ligand naphthylmedetomidine with medetomidine in rhesus monkeys.
During an outbreak of respiratory disease in captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), gorillas (Gorilla gorilla), Bornean orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus), and red-capped mangabeys (Cercocebus torquatus) also staff members showed non-specific upper respiratory signs. One infant female chimpanzee with severe respiratory symptoms died despite immediate medical treatment and was submitted for necropsy.
Endometrial and cervical polyps are masses of endometrium or cervical epithelium that bulge into the uterine or cervical lumen. The physiopathology and contributing factors of endometrial polyps development are still unknown.
Chagas disease (CD) or American trypanosomiasis is caused by a hemoflagellate protozoan, Trypanosoma cruzi. This organism has been isolated from more than 100 mammalian species and several insect vectors demonstrating a wide host distribution and low host specificity.
The study of dendritic cell (DC) biology in the rhesus macaque is becoming increasingly important but is limited by incomplete characterization and the lack of a rapid assay to quantify cells.
Although a wide variety of non-human primates are susceptible to simian T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 (STLV-1), little is known about the virological or molecular determinants of natural STLV-1 infection.
There is considerable interest in developing coitally independent, sustained release formulations for long-term administration of HIV microbicides. Vaginal ring devices are at the forefront of this formulation strategy.
Cases of abdominal pregnancy, in the form of intra-abdominal mummified fetuses, have been described in nonhuman primates. Gestational diabetes and pre-eclampsia are common pregnancy complications in women.
Few long-term studies of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and hepatocellular carcinoma have focused on women. We used a nationwide cohort of reproductive-aged Taiwanese women to study relationships of HBV infection and parity with hepatocellular carcinoma risk.
Previous research relating dietary fat, a modifiable risk factor, to pancreatic cancer has been inconclusive.
A recent genome-wide association study identified single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) 2q35-rs13387042 as a marker of susceptibility to estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. We attempted to confirm this association using the Breast Cancer Association Consortium.
In the United States, a black-to-white disparity in age-standardized breast cancer mortality rates emerged in the 1980s and has widened since then.
Racial disparities in cancer outcomes have been observed in several malignancies. However, it is unclear if survival differences persist after adjusting for clinical, demographic, and treatment variables. Our objective was to determine whether racial disparities in survival exist among patients enrolled in consecutive trials conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG).
Gliomas, particularly glioblastomas, are among the deadliest of human tumors. Gliomas emerge through the accumulation of recurrent chromosomal alterations, some of which target yet-to-be-discovered cancer genes. A persistent question concerns the biological basis for the coselection of these alterations during gliomagenesis.
Glioblastomas--uniformly fatal brain tumors--often have both monosomy of chromosome 10 and gains of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene locus on chromosome 7, an association for which the mechanism is poorly understood.
A recent survey suggested that cardiothoracic surgeons may alter planned procedures to repair incidentally discovered patent foramen ovale (PFO). How frequently this occurs and the impact on outcomes remain unknown.
Studies have suggested an increased risk of ovarian cancer among women taking postmenopausal hormone therapy. Data are sparse on the differential effects of formulations, regimens, and routes of administration.
The identification of key molecules is crucial for designing transmission-blocking vaccines (TBVs), among those ookinete micronemal proteins are candidate as a general class of malaria transmission-blocking targets. Here, the sequence analysis of an extra-cellular malaria protein expressed in ookinetes, named von Willebrand factor A domain-related protein (WARP), is reported in 91 Plasmodium vivax isolates circulating in different regions of Iran.
Previous data indicate a beneficial effect of cabergoline (CAB) association to somatostatin analogs (SA) in acromegalics resistant to SA monotherapy.
Systemic chemotherapies are associated with limited response rates and significant toxicity in patients with malignant digestive endocrine tumors (DET). Preliminary studies have reported interesting results with temozolomide in patients with DET.
Treatment with intravenous immunoglobin (IVIg) in the first two weeks of hospitalization has proven efficiency for shortening recovery time of patients with Guillain- Barr syndrome (GBS). The goal of the study is to determine if early treatment with IVIg in the first days after onset of symptoms has a significant effect on shortening average length of hospital stay.
The purpose of this article is to present the results of a systematic review on the costs and the efficiency of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) on patients suffering advanced Parkinson's disease.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a chronic neurological disorder that has a negtive influence on sleep. We describe clinical spectrum, polysomnogram and impact on sleep of patients' series with RLS.
Meningiomas are frequent primary neoplasms of the central nervous system, usually benign and susceptible to healing through surgery. The histological grade of the WHO and the extension of the initial surgical resection are determining prognostic factors in these tumors. Nevertheless, a recurrence rate close to 20 % in benign meningiomas completely diseccated arises the need of considering new prognostic factors.
In recent years, Enterococcus species have emerged as significant human pathogens capable of causing a variety of nosocomial and community-acquired infections. However, enterococcal meningitis (EM) is an uncommon disease. This study describes the clinical features and outcome of EM in adults seen at a tertiary hospital during 25 years.
The medical conditions shared by hospital emergency services and community-hospital neurology clinics (CHNC) have not been described, and the quality of the medical care received in these conditions has not been evaluated in our environment.
Alzheimer s disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease and (it accounts for 60-80 %). The certain diagnosis is made thanks to the brain patients study. Since 1970 there have been developed experimental models that have done a deep approach of this disease and new therapeutic researching.
Papilledema may lead to diagnostic difficulties in its different stages. It should be differenciates from optic neuropathies and structural abnormalities of the optic disk known as pseudopapilloedema. The new diagnostic techniques in ophthalmology may be useful to diagnose papilloedema as well as in further follow-up, even though they are not exempt of limitations.
Lepra is an uncommon disease within our setting. However, it was considered the most frequent cause of polyneuropathy only 50 years ago.
Extracranial-intracranial (EC/IC) bypass is a useful procedure for the treatment of cerebral vascular insufficiency or complex aneurysms. We explored the role of multidetector computed tomography angiography (MDCTA), instead of digital subtraction angiography (DSA), for the postoperative assessment of EC/IC bypass patency.
We aimed to devise a rating method for key frontal and temporal brain regions validated against quantitative volumetric methods and applicable to a range of dementia syndromes.
A conservative treatment strategy is often proposed as a primary treatment option in the management of vestibular schwannomas (VS). In this "wait and scan" policy, audiovestibular symptoms are monitored regularly, and VS growth is measured on consecutive magnetic resonance images (MRI). The aim of this study is validation of two-dimensional versus volume MRI assessment in the longitudinal follow-up of VS and to define tumor growth beyond measurement error.
The study's purpose is to report the technical and clinical outcomes of a patient cohort that underwent vertebral artery ostium stent placement for atherosclerotic stenosis.
Intervertebral spacers are made of different materials, which can affect the postfusion magnetic imaging (MRI) scans. Susceptibility artifacts especially for metallic implants can decrease the image quality. This study aimed to determine whether magnesium as a lightweight and biocompatible metal is suitable as a biomaterial for spinal implants based on its MRI artifacting behavior.
Urinary incontinence is a common and potentially debilitating problem. Open retropubic colposuspension is a surgical treatment which involves lifting the tissues near the bladder neck and proximal urethra in the area behind the anterior pubic bones to correct deficient urethral closure.
While many authors have discussed models and tools for studying protein evolution at the sequence level, molecular function is usually mediated by complex, higher order features such as independently folding domains and linear motifs that are based on or embedded in a particular arrangment of features such as secondary structure elements, transmembrane domains and regions with intrinsic disorder. This 'protein architecture' can, in its most simplistic representation, be visualized as domain organization cartoons that can be used to compare proteins in terms of the order of their mostly globular domains.
Biogenic amines are implicated in reinforcing associative learning. Octopamine (OA) is considered the invertebrate counterpart of noradrenaline and several studies in insects converge on the idea that OA mediates the reward in appetitive conditioning. However, it is possible to assume that OA could have a different role in an aversive conditioning.
Malignant catarrhal fever (MCF) is a lethal disease of cattle, characterized by vasculitis, necrosis, and accumulation of activated, dysregulated cytotoxic lymphocytes in various tissues. Ovine gamma herpesvirus 2 (OvHV-2) is a causative agent of MCF, which may trigger the disease through immunopathogenic pathways. Lymphocytes are the main target of the virus. However, the pathogenic basis of the disease is still mysterious.
Dyslipoproteinemia, obesity and insulin resistance are integrative constituents of the metabolic syndrome and are major risk factors for hypertension. The objective of this study was to determine whether hypertension specifically affects the plasma lipidome independently and differently from the effects induced by obesity and insulin resistance.
Sequence similarity to characterized proteins provides testable functional hypotheses for less than 50% of the proteins identified by genome sequencing projects. With structural genomics it is believed that structural similarities may give functional hypotheses for many of the remaining proteins.
Streptococcus suis is a zoonotic pathogen that infects pigs and can occasionally cause serious infections in humans. S. suis infections occur sporadically in human Europe and North America, but a recent major outbreak has been described in China with high levels of mortality. The mechanisms of S. suis pathogenesis in humans and pigs are poorly understood.
Faces are arguably one of the most important object categories encountered by human observers, yet they present one of the most difficult challenges to both the human and artificial visual systems. A variety of experimental paradigms have been developed to study how faces are represented and recognized, among which is the part-spacing paradigm. This paradigm is presumed to characterize the processing of both the featural and configural information of faces, and it has become increasingly popular for testing hypotheses on face specificity and in the diagnosis of face perception in cognitive disorders.
The dinoflagellate genus Symbiodinium forms symbioses with numerous protistan and invertebrate metazoan hosts. However, few data on symbiont genetic structure are available, hindering predictions of how these populations and their host associations will fair in the face of global climate change.
The development and course of Crohn's disease (CD) is related to both genetic and environmental factors. Smoking has been found to exacerbate the course of CD by increasing the risk of developing fistulas and strictures as well as the need for surgery, possibly because of an interaction between smoking or nicotine on macrophage function and the intestinal microvasculature. Several genes are involved in the pathogenesis of CD, and in this study the gene expression differences of the descending colonic mucosa were investigated in CD (smokers or never smokers) and controls (smokers or never smokers).
Sudden cardiac arrest in the young is always an extremely tragic event, producing enormous stress and anxiety in the family. When the event is due to an inherited cardiac arrhythmia, the additional concerns and questions about who else is affected and who will die next can become overwhelming to both the nuclear and the extended family. Identification and screening of the family members are necessary in order to find and treat presymptomatic members and prevent sudden death.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is one of the most common inherited cardiac disorders, with a prevalence in young adults of one in 500 and is defined by its wall thickening.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy is characterized by ventricular diastolic dysfunction with a clinical course in childhood that is often progressive despite medical therapy.
The recognition that implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy in children can prolong life coupled with the development of smaller devices and transvenous lead technology has increased the number of ICDs implanted in children and young adults.
The extension of the life-saving benefits of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) to prevent sudden cardiac arrest in children and young adults represents a key clinical development. The psychosocial adjustment in young ICD patients has not been as well-studied as in adults and remains an area of needed research.
Thousands of infants, children, adolescents, and young adults die sudden and unexpectedly each year in the United States. A significant proportion are autopsy negative and are classified as autopsy negative sudden unexplained death (SUD) after the first year of life and as sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) if prior to their first birthday. Postmortem genetic testing known as the cardiac channel molecular autopsy is capable of identifying the subset of channelopathic SUD/SIDS.
A recent study by Jeloka et al. (Perit Dial Int 2006; 26:336-40) highlighted the high variability in maximum ultrafiltered volume (UF(max)) and the corresponding dwell time (t(max)) obtained using 7.5% icodextrin solution. We aimed to pinpoint the possible sources of this phenomenon by simulating the icodextrin ultrafiltration (UF) profiles according to the three-pore model of peritoneal transport.
Icodextrin-based solutions (ICO) have clinical and theoretical advantages over glucose-based solutions (GLU) in fluid and metabolic management of diabetic peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients; however, these advantages have not yet been tested in a randomized fashion.
Evidence is accumulating that the continuous exposure to high glucose concentrations during peritoneal dialysis (PD) is an important cause of ultrafiltration (UF) failure. The cornerstone of prevention and treatment of UF failure is reduction of glucose exposure, which will also alleviate the systemic impact of significant free glucose absorption. The challenge for the future is to discover new therapeutic strategies to enhance fluid and sodium removal while diminishing glucose load and exposure using combinations of available osmotic agents.
Hypervolemia is a risk factor for left ventricular hypertrophy and hypertension in peritoneal dialysis patients. Icodextrin improves volume control by increasing ultrafiltration in peritoneal dialysis patients.
There are no Taiwanese publications and only a few Asian publications on the long-term outcome of peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of PD patients in Taiwan during a 7-year follow-up period.
Changes in skin color are common among dialysis patients. They are associated with urochrome pigments, hemoglobin, and changes in cutaneous vasculature. Insulin resistance (IR) is strongly linked to cutaneous vascular dysfunction and is prevalent in dialysis patients. We postulated skin color may be associated with IR in dialysis patients because of the alternation in cutaneous vasculature.
Although hyperphosphatemia is one of the few established risk factors for cardiovascular mortality in patients on dialysis, the relationship between peritoneal dialysis (PD) prescription and dialytic phosphate removal is largely unexplored.
Garlic or Allium sativum (As) shows therapeutic effects such as reduction of blood pressure or hypercholesterolemia but side-effects on reproductive functions remain poorly investigated. Because of garlic's chemical complexity, the processing methods and yield in preparations differ in efficacy and safety. In this context, we clarify the mechanisms of action of crushed crude garlic on testicular markers.
To prevent unnecessary errors and adverse results of laparoscopic surgery, proper training is of paramount importance. A safe way to train surgeons for laparoscopic skills is simulation. For this purpose traditional box trainers are often used, however they lack objective assessment of performance. Virtual reality laparoscopic simulators assess performance, but lack realistic haptic feedback. Augmented reality (AR) combines a virtual reality (VR) setting with real physical materials, instruments, and feedback. This article presents the current developments in augmented reality laparoscopic simulation.
A group of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and body mass index (BMI) 20-34 kg/m(2) were submitted to laparoscopic interposition of a segment of ileum into the proximal jejunum or into the proximal duodenum associated to a sleeve gastrectomy. The objective of this study is to evaluate the hormonal changes in the pre- and postoperative period.
Intralobar sequestration (ILS) associated with congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation (CCAM) is a well-known entity. This hybrid form has many considerations for an appropriate management. This report aims to analyze pitfalls in the diagnosis, treatment, and thoracoscopic procedure pertaining to this association.
Nissen fundoplication has been performed laparoscopically for over 15 years, being associated with shorter hospital stay and fewer complications than conventional open surgery with good long-term outcomes. Day-case laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF) is rarely performed in the UK and most series in the literature report length of stay &gt;2 days.
We recently demonstrated that CO(2) pneumoperitoneum at low intraperitoneal pressure (IPP) had few if any short-term effects on peritoneal dissemination when an ovarian cancer cell line was inoculated just prior to surgery. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the impact of surgical peritoneal environment on postoperative tumor growth and dissemination over time when tumors were present before surgery.
Laparoscopic repair of umbilical hernias is usually based on the open underlay procedure in which the mesh is placed intra-abdominally. To prevent complications such as adhesions, bowel obstruction and fistula formation we developed a new laparoscopic approach, placing the mesh in the preperitoneal space.
Laparoscopy requires a reliable light source to provide adequate visualization. However, thermal energy is produced as a by-product from the optical cable. This study attempts to quantify the degree of possible thermal damage secondary to the fiber-optic light source.
Two decades ago, minimally invasive surgery (MIS) was introduced and led to a revolution in modern surgery. Currently MIS procedures are the standard of care for many surgical interventions and patients often seek out surgeons with special training in MIS. Today, natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) appears to be on the threshold of another such revolution. We surmise that its advantages are similar to those of other MIS procedures, but there are no associated abdominal wall complications as there are no abdominal incisions. To date, there is no data evaluating women's perceptions of such a procedure and their willingness to consent to this type of surgical approach.
Recently prophylactic placement of a trans-sphincteric pancreatic stent has successfully been applied to prevent post-endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) pancreatitis. Rescue ERCP and emergency application of small-caliber pancreatic stents during the early course of post-ERCP pancreatitis as a possible endoscopic therapy has not been reported yet.
Application of laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy (LADG) for early gastric cancer (EGC) is still controversial because of scant evidence of long-term safety and feasibility. We evaluated the long-term outcome of LADG compared with conventional open distal gastrectomy (ODG) for EGC.
Novel devices have been designed for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) using minimally invasive approaches. This study aimed to determine the usefulness of a sheep model for training in cardiac surgical ablation using a minimally invasive approach in an experimental hands-on training course.
Totally extraperitoneal (TEP) endoscopic hernia surgery is increasingly popular since it is associated with little postoperative pain and with early return to work. Previous appendectomy may preclude preperitoneal dissection in patients with right-sided hernias. The feasibility of TEP surgery in these patients was the subject of the present study.
This study aimed to assess the feasibility, safety, and immediate postoperative outcome of laparoscopically assisted ileocolic resection for Crohn's disease.
Laparoscopic colectomy (LC) is slowly becoming the standard of care for elective resections. However, the use of LC in the emergency setting is relatively unstudied. The authors describe their experience with a series of emergent and urgent LC cases for a variety of colorectal pathologies.
Pneumoperitoneum is known to be associated with transient impairment in kidney function. This study was designed to investigate the effect of diltiazem on acute kidney injury during positive pneumoperitoneum in patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery.
Benign strictures at esophagojejunostomy sites may develop after total gastrectomy, and through-the-scope balloon dilation (TTS-BD) can relieve them. The aim of this study was to evaluate effective and safe balloon diameter for benign stricture after total gastrectomy.
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) feeding tubes are required for an increasing number of patients with long-term nutritional requirements. "Buried bumper syndrome" (BBS) occurs in 2-6% of PEG placements. In the past, this has been a difficult problem to resolve. The authors aimed to design a safe and simple method of dealing with BBS that can be performed by any endoscopist on a routine endoscopic list with the patient under sedation.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of two different sterilization protocols on the bacterial counts in the swine colon as preparation for natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) surgery.
For many years, intraoperative cholangiography during cholecystectomy to aid definition of the biliary anatomy and to detect choledocholithiasis has been advocated. Although radiation exposure in fluoroscopic procedures is a concern, few available data exist regarding the radiation exposure incurred during intraoperative cholangiography. This study aimed to determine the average radiation exposure sustained during this procedure.
The aim of this prospective double-cohort pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility and desirability of laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF) performed in day-care when compared with laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) in day-care.
This study aimed to evaluate the authors' initial experience with antegrade stenting. It focused on the success rate, time required for stent insertion, possible complications, and relative solutions in the first 44 procedures.
Cholecystectomy usually is recommended for patients with gallbladder (GB) stones who previously underwent endoscopic removal of common bile duct (CBD) stones. However, in practice, many patients still have GB stones after improvement of their biliary symptoms. This study aimed to evaluate risk factors for cholecystectomy in patients with GB stones after complete endoscopic clearance of CBD stones.
The biopsy size obtained with standard flexible forceps (SFF) during semirigid pleuroscopy is often insufficient for pathological examination. An insulated-tip diathermic knife (IT knife) allows safe resection of a larger lesion during gastrointestinal endoscopy. We sought to validate an electrocautery pleural biopsy technique using the IT knife during semirigid pleuroscopy. We compared the diagnosis of specimens obtained using the IT knife and SFF in 20 subjects with unexplained pleural effusion, and reviewed pleuroscopic parameters such as complications, procedure time, and diameter of the specimens.
Laparoscopic appendectomy is one of the most commonly performed minimally invasive surgeries worldwide. In recent years, successful attempts to reduce the number of the traditionally used three ports have been reported. Specifically, two-port techniques, hybrid approaches, and single-port assisted techniques have been described.
The aim of this study was to assess the complications associated with the laparoscopic treatment of gastric cancer and to discuss their management.
Outcomes of laparoscopic resection for ileocecal Crohn's disease have been reported previously in smaller studies, suggesting its short-term advantages over open surgery. This study assessed the safety and recovery parameters in the largest, consecutive, single-institution series to date.
Endoscopic thyroidectomy has been known to surgeons for only 20 years. Related studies still are needed to make up for the deficiency of clinical experience. Research on the learning curve for the endoscopic thyroidectomy could be the method for investigating the operation experience.
The long-term oncologic stability of laparoscopic surgery for colon cancer was established, and laparoscopic surgery was accepted as an alternative to conventional open surgery for colon cancer. However, transverse colon cancer was excluded from the majority of the previous prospective studies. As a result, debate on laparoscopic surgery for transverse colon cancer continues. This study aimed to compare the clinicopathologic outcome of laparoscopic surgery with that of conventional open surgery for transverse colon cancer.
Recurrence of cancer and the need for several surgical treatments are the Achilles' heel of the treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in cases of cirrhosis. The difficulty of reintervention is increased by the formation of adhesions after the previous hepatectomy that can make a new surgical procedure more difficult and less safe. With a minimally invasive approach, the formation of postoperative adhesions seems to be minimized, and the adhesiolysis procedure seems to be faster and safer in terms of blood loss and risk of visceral injuries.
Conventional open herniorrhaphy in children has been reported to have 0.3-3.8% recurrence and 5.6-30% postoperative contralateral hernia rates. We developed a unique technique to achieve completely extraperitoneal ligation of PPV without any skip areas under laparoscopic control. This report introduces our technique and results compared with the cut-down herniorrhaphy.
Transvaginal cholecystectomy has been performed at several institutions using hybrid natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) techniques.
Magnetic anchoring guidance systems (MAGS) are composed of an internal surgical instrument controlled by an external handheld magnet and do not require a dedicated surgical port. Therefore, this system may help to reduce internal and external collision of instruments associated with laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) surgery. Herein, we describe the initial clinical experience with a magnetically anchored camera system used during laparoscopic nephrectomy and appendectomy in two human patients.
The full-thickness Plicator (Ethicon Endosurgery, Sommerville, NJ, USA) was developed for endoscopic treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). The goal is to restructure the antireflux barrier by delivering transmural pledgeted sutures through the gastric cardia. To date, studies using this device have involved the placement of a single suture to create the plication. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 12-month safety and efficacy of this procedure using multiple implants to restructure the gastroesophageal (GE) junction.
The spread of infectious disease is determined by biological factors, e.g. the duration of the infectious period, and social factors, e.g. the arrangement of potentially contagious contacts. Repetitiveness and clustering of contacts are known to be relevant factors influencing the transmission of droplet or contact transmitted diseases. However, we do not yet completely know under what conditions repetitiveness and clustering should be included for realistically modelling disease spread.
Rat models are frequently used to find genomic regions that contribute to complex diseases, so called quantitative trait loci (QTLs). In general, the genomic regions found to be associated with a quantitative trait are rather large, covering hundreds of genes. To help selecting appropriate candidate genes from QTLs associated with type 2 diabetes models in rat, we have developed a web tool called Candidate Gene Capture (CGC), specifically adopted for this disorder.
Blood donors are routinely screened for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Some show weak anti-HCV responses, often restricted to a single antigen on confirmatory immunoblot (recombinant immunoblot assay [RIBA]) testing. The aim of this study was to investigate the extent to which such RIBA-indeterminate donors had previously been exposed to HCV.
Blood donors with indeterminate hepatitis C virus antibody (anti-HCV) reactivity are rejected from blood donation. As they are mostly nonviremic, the source of these reactions remains unclear. Reasons for such findings can be resolved HCV infections as well as unspecific antibody reactions. The aim of this study was to investigate HCV-specific T-cell response in blood donors to determine the reason for the weak antibody detection.
The practice of platelet (PLT) transfusions has been adopted into the standard clinical practice in many dengue-endemic countries. Because many patients were found to have received unnecessary PLT transfusions, the development of guidelines for the management of dengue patients with thrombocytopenia has become a necessity.
Preoperative autologous blood donation lowers preoperative hemoglobin (Hb) levels, and the collected blood is frequently wasted. Intraoperative red blood cell (RBC) salvage provides fresher autologous blood in proportion to surgical blood loss, making cell salvage (CS) in radical prostatectomy (RP) feasible for study.
The clinical application of flow cytometric direct antiglobulin test (FC-DAT) has rarely been evaluated for patients with various diseases including immune and nonimmune hemolytic anemia.
In the Rh blood group system, published observations showed that the c antigen has the fewest variant forms of the principal antigens in this system. The partial nature of the c antigen was only reported in c+ Rh:-26 persons and to be associated with the ce(s)(340) allele. This study reports the first case of alloanti-c related to a (C)ce(s) haplotype.
In Africa, RHD alleles have not been fully characterized. The purpose of this study was to identify inactive and active RHD alleles at the molecular level in Congolese cohorts.
The pretransfusion check at the bedside is the most critical step for the prevention of mistransfusion in pediatric patients, as well as in adults. The objective of this study was to assess whether a bar code-based patient-blood unit identification system could be applied to the pretransfusion check at the bedside for the issuing of blood dispensed in syringes.
The association of autoantibody formation with blood transfusion was previously noted. Severe autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) diagnosed after red blood cell (RBC) transfusion determined us to undertake this study and investigate the incidence and clinical significance of autoantibodies occurring after transfusion by a retrospective review of blood bank and medical records.
The RhD and RhCE polypeptides are erythroid-specific members of the RH gene family. Little is known about the promoter cis-regulatory proximal region responsible for transcription.
Studies have shown that packed blood cells (PBCs) stored in AS-1 (Adsol, Baxter) and AS-3 (Nutricel, Medsep Corp.) accumulate proinflammatory substances, which may contribute to increased complications from allogeneic blood transfusion. This study assessed whether supernates from PBCs stored in AS-5 (Optisol, Terumo Corp.) prime neutrophils (PMNs), activate platelets (PLTs), and accumulate proinflammatory cytokines and PMN granule constituents.
Marrow stromal cells (MSCs) for clinical trials are inevitably stored before administration, but little is known about the effects of storage on MSCs. The effects of short-term liquid storage on the in vitro function of MSCs intended for a clinical trial were studied.
Recent evidence demonstrates an association between duration of storage of red blood cells (RBC) and morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery. We studied the feasibility of two different schemes for categorizing and randomizing age of RBC units transfused in cardiac surgical patients.
Pathogen inactivation of platelet (PLT) components (INTERCEPT Blood System, Cerus Europe) was implemented into routine practice at a blood center supporting a tertiary care hospital. Utilization of platelet components (PCs) and red blood cell (RBC) components was analyzed for 3 years before and 3 years after introduction of pathogen inactivation to assess the impact of pathogen inactivation on component use.
Enucleated platelets (PLTs) utilize posttranscriptional gene (mRNA) regulation (PTGR) for their normal morphologic and physiologic functions, which are altered in their ex vivo storage, also collectively referred to as storage lesions. While cellular micro-RNAs (miRNAs) play a significant role in posttranscriptional gene (mRNA) regulation by binding to their target mRNAs, comprehensive analysis of apoptosis-associated miRNAs and global changes in their profiles during PLT storage have not been evaluated to date.
Parvovirus B19 (B19V) is a pathogen frequently identified in human plasma donations through the detection of nucleic acids. Three B19V genotypes have been defined based on isolates having greater than 10% divergence in overall DNA sequence. B19V Genotype 3 is a rarely occurring genotype that has been detected primarily in Ghana with sporadic reports in Brazil and France but has not been previously reported in North America.
Dengue virus (DENV) is a Flavivirus transmitted by the Aedes mosquito. The related arbovirus, West Nile virus, has been shown to be transfusion transmitted, which, added to the four recorded dengue transfusion-associated cases, indicates that DENV is also transfusion transmitted. The purpose of this study was to assess the risk of transfusion-transmitted DENV during a 2004 outbreak in the Australian city of Cairns.
This study presents our implementation of a two-specimen requirement with no prior record of ABO/Rh to verify patients' blood type before transfusion.
There are an increasing number of reports on the hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotype distribution in acute or chronic HBV-infected patients in Japan; however, reports on the HBV genotype of blood donors are few. To compare the HBV genotypes of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive blood donors with infected patients, all the HBsAg-positive donors' genotypes were determined.
QWALYS 2 is a fully automated system for ABO/D grouping, Rh phenotyping, K typing, and antibody screening (ABS). Its new erythrocyte-magnetized technology (EMT) is based on the use of magnetic nanoparticles and avoids centrifugation and washing steps.
In this single-center, nonrandomized, prospective study, 11 children with severe genetic hypercholesterolemia, without previous cardiovascular disease events, were treated with low-density lipoprotein apheresis (LDLa).
Mortality increases as hemoglobin (Hb) levels fall. Among severely anemic patients, the clinical course, cause of death, and whether there are any warning signs before death are unknown.
Lipid loss in the form of vesicles contributes to the red blood cell (RBC) storage lesion, and this loss of lipid is correlated with changes in membrane protein function. Sensitive spectroscopic techniques were used to measure changes in Band 3 oligomeric state during storage of RBCs, compared to metabolic changes and phospholipid loss. The aim of the study was to determine whether changes in the macromolecular organization of membrane proteins occur before, coincident with, or after lipid loss during RBC storage.
The duration of red blood cell (RBC) storage before transfusion may alter RBC function and, therefore, influence the incidence of complications.
Sending a monetary incentive with postal questionnaires has been found to improve the proportion of responders, in research in non-healthcare settings. However, there is little research on use of incentives to improve follow-up rates in clinical trials, and existing studies are inconclusive. We conducted a randomised trial among participants in the Managing Injuries of the Neck Trial (MINT) to investigate the effects on the proportion of questionnaires returned and overall non-response of sending a 5 pounds gift voucher with a follow-up questionnaire.
ISRCTN61305297.
In the Center for Plastic Surgery of the Trauma Hospital Berlin, between the years 2000 and 2007 we observed a total of 10 deep dermal alkali burns caused by screed.
Infectious salmon anaemia (ISA) virus (ISAV) is a pathogen of marine-farmed Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar); a disease first diagnosed in Norway in 1984. For over 25 years ISAV has caused major disease outbreaks in the Northern hemisphere, and remains an emerging fish pathogen because of the asymptomatic infections in marine wild fish and the potential for emergence of new epidemic strains. ISAV belongs to the family Orthomyxoviridae, together with influenza viruses but is sufficiently different to be assigned to its own genus, Isavirus. The Isavirus genome consists of eight single-stranded RNA species, and the virions have two surface glycoproteins; fusion (F) protein encoded on segment 5 and haemagglutinin-esterase (HE) protein encoded on segment 6. However, comparison between different ISAV isolates is complicated because there is presently no universally accepted nomenclature system for designation of genetic relatedness between ISAV isolates. The first outbreak of ISA in marine-farmed Atlantic salmon in the Southern hemisphere occurred in Chile starting in June 2007. In order to describe the molecular characteristics of the virus so as to understand its origins, how ISAV isolates are maintained and spread, and their virulence characteristics, we conducted a study where the viral sequences were directly amplified, cloned and sequenced from tissue samples collected from several ISA-affected fish on the different fish farms with confirmed or suspected ISA outbreaks in Chile. This paper describes the genetic characterization of a large number of ISAV strains associated with extensive outbreaks in Chile starting in June 2007, and their phylogenetic relationships with selected European and North American isolates that are representative of the genetic diversity of ISAV.
Acute lower respiratory tract infections (ALRI) are the major cause of morbidity and mortality in young children worldwide. Information on viral etiology in ALRI from India is limited. The aim of the present study was to develop a simple, sensitive, specific and cost effective multiplex PCR (mPCR) assay without post PCR hybridization or nested PCR steps for the detection of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), influenza viruses, parainfluenza viruses (PIV1-3) and human metapneumovirus (hMPV). Nasopharyngeal aspirates (NPAs) were collected from children with ALRI &lt; or = 5 years of age. The sensitivity and specificity of mPCR was compared to virus isolation by centrifugation enhanced culture (CEC) followed by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF).
Neoplasms arising from Meckel's diverticulae reported in the literature are mainly carcinoid tumours, gastrointestinal stromal tumours, and gastric or intestinal adenocarcinomas.
Vascular leiomyosarcoma are rare tumors typically originating from the inferior vena cava (IVC). Due to nonspecific clinical signs most tumors are diagnosed at advanced stages. Complete surgical resection remains the only potential curative therapeutic option. Surgical strategy is particularly influenced by the level of the IVC affected. Due to the topographic relation to the renal veins level-II involvement of the IVC raises special surgical challenges with respect to the maintenance of venous outflow.
The forced oscillation technique is a noninvasive and effort-independent technique that is well suited for lung function measurement in young children. FOT employs small-amplitude pressure oscillations superimposed on normal breathing. Therefore, it has the advantage over conventional lung function techniques in that it does not require patient cooperation for conducting respiratory maneuvers.
Stem cell-based therapy is a promising approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative disease. In our laboratory, a novel protocol has been developed to induce bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells into neurotrophic factor-secreting cells. These cells produce and secrete factors such as BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) and GDNF (glial-derived neurotrophic factor).
The TANTALUS System (MetaCure Limited) is a minimally invasive implantable device for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The system detects food intake by sensing gastric electrical variations and applies electrical stimulation to the gut synchronized to natural gastric activity. The system is commercially available in Europe and Israel and is in clinical trials in the United States. It has been tested in 132 patients worldwide to date.
Despite progress in medical and surgical care the mortality rate of congenital diaphragmatic hernia remains high. Assessment of short-term outcome is important for comparison between different medical centers.
Fracture of the scaphoid is the most common fracture of a carpal bone. Nevertheless, the diagnosis of SF might be challenging. Plain X-rays that fail to demonstrate a fracture line while clinical findings suggest the existence of such a fracture is not uncommon. Currently there is no consensus in the literature as to how a clinically suspected SF should be diagnosed, immobilized and treated.
Sickle cell anemia is a hemolytic anemia caused by a single mutation in position 6 of the beta globin molecule. About 80 patients with SCA in northern Israel are currently receiving treatment.
The incidence of cardiovascular disease increases with age, and visits by elderly patients to the outpatient cardiac clinic are becoming more frequent.
To ensure the security for persons using the laboratory for research purposes it was decided to determine the influence of the number of employees and the time of their work on the survivability and vitality of Candida albicans, C. dubliniensis and C. tropicalis.
Tobacco smoking, lack of recreational physical activity, unbalanced diet, overweight and obesity are the major modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases. The aim of the study was to evaluate the prevalence of smoking and the other lifestyle behaviors among economically active adults.
In Poland, prenatal exposure to tobacco smoke is observed in about 30 percent of children and postnatal in over 50 percent of children. This exposure has serious health consequences, including the negative effect on child neurodevelopment. The aim of the study was to assess the effect of environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure on child psychomotor development.
International anti-nicotine campaigns have been found to be efficient and economically effective methods of reducing tobacco addiction on a social scale. Nevertheless innovative methods are being looked for in order to increase the efficiency of anti-nicotine interventions. The aim of the research was to evaluate a long-term efficiency of two programs of additional anti-nicotine intervention introduced after the 2nd International Antinicotine Campaign conducted in Poland (1996) in two randomly chosen groups of people from among the participants of the 'Quit and Win' competition held in 1996.
The negative influence of tobacco smoke on the course of bronchial asthma is complex and includes direct toxic effects on the epithelium of the respiratory tract. It is estimated that in developed countries, approximately 25 percent of adult asthmatics are tobacco smokers. Knowledge of the scale of the habit, may considerably contribute to the optimization of effective pro-health activity. The aim of this study was to analyze the occurrence of tobacco smoking among patients with the respiratory system disease.
Occupational health service is based on legal regulations. We have made an attempt to estimate the implementation of the tasks resulting from article 12 of the Occupational Medicine Service Act introduced in 1998.
A continuous femoral nerve block is frequently used as an adjunct therapy after total knee arthroplasty (TKA). However, there is still debate on its benefits.
Hypoxia has been shown to change electroencephalogram parameters including frequency and amplitude, and may thus change bispectral index (BIS) and spectral entropy values. If hypoxia per se changes BIS and spectral entropy values, BIS and spectral entropy values may not correctly reflect the depth of anaesthesia during hypoxia. The aim of this study was to examine the changes in BIS and spectral entropy values during hypobaric hypoxia in volunteers.
Post-operative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) commonly occurs after cardiac surgery. Ketamine exerts neuroprotective effects after cerebral ischemia by anti-excitotoxic and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. We hypothesized that ketamine attenuates POCD in patients undergoing cardiac surgery concomitant with an anti-inflammatory effect.
daVinci robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (RALP) requires pneumoperitoneum in the steep Trendelenburg position, which results in increased intracranial pressure and cerebral blood flow. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of pneumoperitoneum in a 30 degrees Trendelenburg position on cerebral oxygenation using regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2).
Right ventricular (RV) function is an important determinant of survival after myocardial infarction. The efficacy of reperfusion therapy might be increased by the cardioprotective action of inotropic agents, which are used for symptomatic therapy in situations with compromised hemodynamics. Therefore, we used a porcine model of RV ischemia and reperfusion (IR) injury to study the influence of milrinone, levosimendan and dobutamine on the extent and degree of myocardial injury.
Severe pain in the head and neck is associated with a lowered quality of life and conventional pain therapy often does not provide adequate relief. The aims of this study were to investigate the efficacy, pain relief, benefits and adverse effects of intracisternal or high cervical (IHC) administration of bupivacaine in patients with severe pain in the head, neck and face regions.
Drowning remains an actual problem. Although medical assistance has improved, it still has high rates of morbidity and mortality. We set out to explore the clinical characteristics and outcome of drowning patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of tertiary-care university hospital.
The incidence of awareness in patients undergoing general anesthesia is 0.1-0.2% in Western countries. The medical literatures about awareness during general anesthesia are still rare in China, but some previous studies have reported a higher incidence (1.4-6%) of intra-operative awareness. To find out the reason why the incidence reported in China is much higher than that in Western countries, we performed a prospective, multicenter, non-randomized observational study to determine the true incidence of intra-operative awareness in China.
Intravenous infusion of ice-cold fluid is considered a feasible method to induce mild therapeutic hypothermia in cardiac arrest survivors. However, only one randomized controlled trial evaluating this treatment exists. Furthermore, the implementation rate of prehospital cooling is low. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this method in comparison with conventional therapy with spontaneous cooling often observed in prehospital patients.
The Airtraq, a new disposable indirect laryngoscope, was evaluated in patients with difficult intubation.
The role of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) in sevoflurane- and desflurane-induced myocardial post-conditioning remains unknown.
The plasma-effect site equilibration rate constant (k(e0)) of propofol has been determined in children with the use of the time to maximum effect (t(peak)), however, it has not been validated. The objective was to measure the t(peak;) of propofol with two depths of anesthesia monitors in children and to evaluate these measurements with a target-controlled infusion (TCI) system.
Several studies have assessed the effect of a 'liberal' vs. a 'restrictive' perioperative fluid regimen on post-operative outcome. The literature was reviewed in order to provide recommendations regarding perioperative fluid regimens.
Therapeutic hypothermia (TH) after cardiac arrest protects from neurological sequels and death and is recommended in guidelines. The Hypothermia Registry was founded to the monitor outcome, performance and complications of TH.
It is unknown which metabolites are responsible for propylene glycol (PG)-induced toxicosis, and a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms explaining incidences of abnormal behaviour of dairy cows fed PG is therefore needed.
Mannans are hemicellulosic polysaccharides in the plant primary cell wall with two major physiological roles: as storage polysaccharides that provide energy for the growing seedling; and as structural components of the hemicellulose-cellulose network with a similar function to xyloglucans. Endo-beta-mannanases are hydrolytic enzymes that cleave the mannan backbone. They are active during seed germination and during processes of growth or senescence. The recent discovery that endo-beta-mannanase LeMAN4a from ripe tomato fruit also has mannan transglycosylase activity requires the role of endo-beta-mannanases to be reinterpreted.
Pollination drops and nectars (floral nectars) are secretions related to plant reproduction. The pollination drop is the landing site for the majority of gymnosperm pollen, whereas nectar of angiosperm flowers represents a common nutritional resource for a large variety of pollinators. Extrafloral nectars also are known from all vascular plants, although among the gymnosperms they are restricted to the Gnetales. Extrafloral nectars are not generally involved in reproduction but serve as 'reward' for ants defending plants against herbivores (indirect defence).
Several studies have evaluated the impact on myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, and overall mortality of perioperative beta-blocker use in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery (NCS). However, most studies did not have adequate sample size and statistical power and were therefore underpowered to adequately evaluate these endpoints.
Poor adherence to warfarin therapy is a major contributor to subtherapeutic anticoagulation.
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate (SB) administration during cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA) is intended to counteract lactic acidosis due to hypoxia, poor perfusion, and anaerobic metabolism. Despite a lack of documented efficacy and a level III recommendation from the American Heart Association, SB is widely used during resuscitation events. SB has both theoretical and measurable adverse effects. Excess or poorly timed administration during a CPA may elevate a patient's pH, inducing alkalemia. Despite decades of controversy surrounding use of this drug, the prevalence of SB-induced alkalemia has not been previously documented.
Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are indicated for both primary and secondary prevention of sudden cardiac arrest. beta-Blockers are also indicated in most patients who have an indication for an ICD; however, their use in this population is not well described. Some clinicians may be unaware of the recommendation for beta-blockers in this population.
Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) has recently been associated with increased mortality in patients in medical intensive care units (ICUs). Although NRT is frequently used in cardiothoracic surgery patients, no safety data exist for use in this population.
Inappropriate prescribing is a well-documented problem in older people. The new screening tools, STOPP (Screening Tool of Older Peoples' Prescriptions) and START (Screening Tool to Alert doctors to Right Treatment) have been formulated to identify potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) and potential errors of omissions (PEOs) in older patients. Consistent, reliable application of STOPP and START is essential for the screening tools to be used effectively by pharmacists.
Use of nonformulary medications (NFMs) may create added costs and potential safety issues. Institutional policies can support compliance with formulary systems and address these issues. However, periodic review is needed to assess the effectiveness of NFM policies.
Daptomycin is approved for the treatment of skin and skin-structure infections (4 mg/kg) and Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia, including right-sided endocarditis (6 mg/kg). In vitro and animal studies have reported increased activity with increased daptomycin doses. There are limited clinical data on use of daptomycin at doses greater than 6 mg/kg.
Clinical outcomes in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can be affected by several factors, including medication adherence. PTSD is associated with an increased likelihood of missed appointments, medication underuse or abuse, and treatment nonadherence.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is common among war veterans. Antidepressants are effective in reducing symptoms and associated disability for some patients.
Two erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs), epoetin alfa and darbepoetin alfa, are approved for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced anemia in patients with cancer. Randomized controlled trials indicate that the drugs are similarly efficacious, but that the duration of clinical benefit (DCB) ranges from 2 to 7 days for epoetin alfa and from 7 to 21 days for darbepoetin alfa, depending on dose. Given equivalent efficacy, payers are increasingly interested in understanding the cost differences for these 2 drugs.
Recent changes in national reimbursement policies expand the ability of pharmacists to seek reimbursement for cognitive services. The quality of pharmacist-provided cognitive services has, until now, remained unassessed. Pharmacists should demonstrate the quality and value of their work to ensure the continued and expanded acceptance of reimbursement for their services. A preliminary step in assessing quality is to compare agreement between pharmacists for basic problem identification.
Several studies have observed a higher rate of inappropriate drug use in elderly women than in elderly men, although few have focused explicitly on sex differences. Also, educational level (a measure of socioeconomic status) has been associated with both polypharmacy and inappropriate drug use in the elderly population, which could explain sex differences in inappropriate drug use.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a common, largely genetically determined, rheumatic disease that is characterised by spinal inflammation and new bone formation. However, the exact pathogenesis and pathology are still not clear.
Mikulicz's disease (MD) has been considered as one manifestation of Sjgren's syndrome (SS). Recently, it has also been considered as an IgG(4)-related disorder.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) has recently emerged as an important cytokine possibly linking rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and atherogenesis. Because atherogenesis is accelerated in RA this study was conducted to investigate whether anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) therapy could lead to sustained downregulation of systemic MIF levels and improvement in lipid profiles.
In moderate-throughput SNP genotyping there was a gap in the workflow, between choosing a set of SNPs and submitting their sequences to proprietary assay design software, which was not met by existing software. Retrieval and formatting of sequences flanking each SNP, prior to assay design, becomes rate-limiting for more than about ten SNPs, especially if annotated for repetitive regions and adjacent variations. We routinely process up to 50 SNPs at once.
Flow cytometry technology is widely used in both health care and research. The rapid expansion of flow cytometry applications has outpaced the development of data storage and analysis tools. Collaborative efforts being taken to eliminate this gap include building common vocabularies and ontologies, designing generic data models, and defining data exchange formats. The Minimum Information about a Flow Cytometry Experiment (MIFlowCyt) standard was recently adopted by the International Society for Advancement of Cytometry. This standard guides researchers on the information that should be included in peer reviewed publications, but it is insufficient for data exchange and integration between computational systems. The Functional Genomics Experiment (FuGE) formalizes common aspects of comprehensive and high throughput experiments across different biological technologies. We have extended FuGE object model to accommodate flow cytometry data and metadata.
The MAQC project demonstrated that microarrays with comparable content show inter- and intra-platform reproducibility. However, since the content of gene databases still increases, the development of new generations of microarrays covering new content is mandatory. To better understand the potential challenges updated microarray content might pose on clinical and biological projects we developed a methodology consisting of in silico analyses combined with performance analysis using real biological samples.
With the recent development of microarray technologies, the comparability of gene expression data obtained from different platforms poses an important problem. We evaluated two widely used platforms, Affymetrix U133 Plus 2.0 and the Illumina HumanRef-8 v2 Expression Bead Chips, for comparability in a biological system in which changes may be subtle, namely fetal lung tissue as a function of gestational age.
The recent availability of an expanding collection of genome sequences driven by technological advances has facilitated comparative genomics and in particular the identification of synteny among multiple genomes. However, the development of effective and easy-to-use methods for identifying such conserved gene clusters among multiple genomes-synteny blocks-as well as databases, which host synteny blocks from various groups of species (especially eukaryotes) and also allow users to run synteny-identification programs, lags behind.
Protein secretion is a cell translocation process of major biological and technological significance. The secretion and downstream processing of proteins by recombinant cells is of great commercial interest. The yeast Kluyveromyces lactis is considered a promising host for heterologous protein production. Because yeasts naturally do not secrete as many proteins as filamentous fungi, they can produce secreted recombinant proteins with few contaminants in the medium. An ideal system to address the secretion of a desired protein could be exploited among the native proteins in certain physiological conditions. By applying algorithms to the completed K. lactis genome sequence, such a system could be selected. To this end, we predicted protein subcellular locations and correlated the resulting extracellular secretome with the transcription factors that modulate the cellular response to a particular environmental stimulus.
Nuclear localization signals (NLSs) are stretches of residues within a protein that are important for the regulated nuclear import of the protein. Of the many import pathways that exist in yeast, the best characterized is termed the 'classical' NLS pathway. The classical NLS contains specific patterns of basic residues and computational methods have been designed to predict the location of these motifs on proteins. The consensus sequences, or patterns, for the other import pathways are less well-understood.
The p53 tumor suppressor and its related protein, p73, share a homologous DNA binding domain, and mouse genetics studies have suggested that they have overlapping as well as distinct biological functions. Both p53 and p73 are activated by genotoxic stress to regulate an array of cellular responses. Previous studies have suggested that p53 and p73 independently activate the cellular apoptotic program in response to cytotoxic drugs. The goal of this study was to compare the promoter-binding activity of p53 and p73 at steady state and after genotoxic stress induced by hydroxyurea.
Glioblastomas (GBM) are typically comprised of morphologically diverse cells. Despite current advances in therapy, including surgical resection followed by radiation and chemotherapy, the prognosis for patients with GBM remains poor. Unfortunately, most patients die within 2 years of diagnosis of their disease. Molecular abnormalities vary among individual patients and also within each tumor. Indeed, one of the distinguishing features of GBM is its marked genetic heterogeneity. Due to the brain location of the tumor, the potential target inhibition for anticancer therapy must exhibit a manageable neurotoxicity profile in the concentration range in which the compounds show anti-proliferative activity.Kinesin KIF11 inhibition by small molecules such as Monastrol or Ispinesib is currently under investigation in the field of malignant tumors. In the current study we have assessed the relevance of the anti-mitotic Kinesin-like protein KIF11 in human GBM cell-lines.
Adenosquamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix is an infrequent but aggressive subtype of cervical cancer. A better understanding of its biological behaviour is warranted to define more accurate prognosis and therapeutic targets. Currently, the blockage of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTKs) activity is an efficient therapeutic strategy for many different cancers. The objective of this study was to investigate EGFR, PDGFRA and VEGFR2 RTKs overexpression and activating gene mutations in a cohort of 30 adenosquamous carcinomas of the uterine cervix.
While global breast cancer gene expression data sets have considerable commonality in terms of their data content, the populations that they represent and the data collection methods utilized can be quite disparate. We sought to assess the extent and consequence of these systematic differences with respect to identifying clinically significant prognostic groups.
The retinoblastoma protein (Rb) plays a central role in the regulation of cell cycle, differentiation and apoptosis. In cancer cells, ablation of Rb function or its pathway is a consequence of genetic inactivation, viral oncoprotein binding or deregulated hyperphosphorylation. Some recent data suggest that Rb relocation could also account for the regulation of its tumor suppressor activity, as is the case for other tumor suppressor proteins, such as p53.
Protein covalent binding by reactive metabolites of drugs, chemicals and natural products can lead to acute cytotoxicity. Recent rapid progress in reactive metabolite target protein identification has shown that adduction is surprisingly selective and inspired the hope that analysis of target proteins might reveal protein factors that differentiate target- vs. non-target proteins and illuminate mechanisms connecting covalent binding to cytotoxicity.
Pancreatic islets are not fully developed at birth and it is not clear how they are vascularised and innervated. Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) is required to guide sympathetic neurons that innervate peripheral organs and also in cardiovascular system and ovary angiogenesis. Pancreatic beta cells of a transgenic mouse that over-expressed NGF in attracts sympathetic hyper-innervation towards them. Moreover, we have previously demonstrated that adult beta cells synthesize and secrete NGF; however, we do not know how is NGF secreted during development, nor if it might be trophic for sympathetic innervation and survival in the pancreas.We analyzed sympathetic innervation and vasculature development in rat pancreatic islets at different developmental stages; foetal (F19), early postnatal (P1), weaning period (P20) and adults. We temporarily correlated these events to NGF secretion by islet cells.
In the hermaphrodite of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the first germ cells differentiate as sperm. Later the germ line switches to the production of oocytes. This process requires the activity of a genetic regulatory network that includes among others the fem, fog and mog genes. The function of some of these genes is germline specific while others also act in somatic tissues. DEAD box proteins have been shown to be involved in the control of gene expression at different steps such as transcription and pre-mRNA processing.
Partial loss of function of the transcription factor FOXL2 leads to premature ovarian failure in women. In animal models, Foxl2 is required for maintenance, and possibly induction, of female sex determination independently of other critical genes, e.g., Rspo1. Here we report expression profiling of mouse ovaries that lack Foxl2 alone or in combination with Wnt4 or Kit/c-Kit.
Tinnitus impairs the possibility of leading a normal life in 0.5-1% of the population. While neither medical nor surgical treatment appears effective, counselling may offer some relief. An intervention combining counselling and hearing devices is offered to clients referred to the Centre for Help Aids and Communication (CHC) in southern Denmark. The aims of this exploratory study were to examine i) the characteristics of CHC's clients and their tinnitus, ii) the effectiveness of the treatment, and iii) whether particular client groups benefit more than others.
Most studies on cortisol have focused on smaller, selected samples. We therefore aimed to sex-specifically study the diurnal cortisol pattern and explore its association with abdominal obesity in a large unselected population.
The true water bugs are grouped in infraorder Nepomorpha (Insecta: Hemiptera: Heteroptera) and are of great economic importance. The phylogenetic relationships within Nepomorpha and the taxonomic hierarchies of Pleoidea and Aphelocheiroidea are uncertain. Most of the previous studies were based on morphological characters without algorithmic assessment. In the latest study, the molecular markers employed in phylogenetic analyses were partial sequences of 16S rDNA and 18S rDNA with a total length about 1 kb. Up to now, no mitochondrial genome of the true water bugs has been sequenced, which is one of the largest data sets that could be compared across animal taxa. In this study we analyzed the unresolved problems in Nepomorpha using evidence from mitochondrial genomes.
Continuity of care has traditionally been regarded as a core quality of general practice, but the long-term doctor-patient relationship has been put under pressure. In many places practices are expanding, with larger teams and more registered patients, thereby threatening the possibility of patients staying with their own general practitioner (GP). GPs often take it for granted that interpersonal continuity is valuable. However, little is known about how patient satisfaction is related to interpersonal continuity. The purpose of this study is to explore the creation of patient satisfaction or dissatisfaction in the interpersonal relation with the GP, and in a comprehensive way to investigate how this is related to continuity of care.
Celiac disease may emerge at any age, but little is known of its appearance in elderly people. We evaluated the prevalence of the condition in individuals over 55 years of age, and determined the incidence of biopsy-proven celiac disease (CDb) and celiac disease including seropositive subjects for anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies (CDb+s).
Among deuterostomes, the regenerative potential is maximally expressed in echinoderms, animals that can quickly replace most injured organs. In particular, sea cucumbers are excellent models for studying organ regeneration since they regenerate their digestive tract after evisceration. However, echinoderms have been sidelined in modern regeneration studies partially because of the lack of genome-wide profiling approaches afforded by modern genomic tools.For the last decade, our laboratory has been using the sea cucumber Holothuria glaberrima to dissect the cellular and molecular events that allow for such amazing regenerative processes. We have already established an EST database obtained from cDNA libraries of normal and regenerating intestine at two different regeneration stages. This database now has over 7000 sequences.
Recent advances in the accumulation of genetic mapping and DNA sequence information from several salmonid species support the long standing view of an autopolyploid origin of these fishes (i.e., 4R). However, the paralogy relationships of the chromosomal segments descendent from earlier polyploidization events (i.e., 2R/3R) largely remain unknown, mainly due to an unbalanced pseudogenization of paralogous genes that were once resident on the ancient duplicated segments. Inter-specific conserved noncoding elements (CNE) might hold the key in identifying these regions, if they are associated with arrays of genes that have been highly conserved in syntenic blocks through evolution. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the chromosomal positions of subset of CNE in the rainbow trout genome using a comparative genomic framework.
The expression levels of many genes show wide natural variation among strains or populations. This study investigated the potential for animal strain-related genotypic differences to confound gene expression profiles in acute cellular rejection (ACR). Using a rat heart transplant model and 2 different rat strains (Dark Agouti, and Brown Norway), microarrays were performed on native hearts, transplanted hearts, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC).
Health care expenditures for older adults are disproportionately high and increasing at both the individual and population levels. We evaluated the effects of the three cognitive training interventions (memory, reasoning, or speed of processing) in the ACTIVE study on changes in predicted medical care expenditures.
Both BALB/c mice and common voles (Microtus arvalis) are considered highly susceptible to tularemia. However, the common vole is reported to harbour Francisella tularensis in European habitats as well as to survive longer with chronic shedding of the bacterium. The purpose of the present study was to compare the response of these two rodents to a wild Francisella tularensis subsp. holarctica strain infection.
Most medical schools use simulated patients (SPs) for teaching. In this context the authenticity of role play and quality of feedback provided by SPs is of paramount importance. The available literature on SP training mostly addresses instructor led training where the SPs are given direction on their roles. This study focuses on the use of peer and self evaluation as a tool to train SPs.
With a growing number of genetic tests becoming available to the health and consumer markets, genetic health care providers in Canada are faced with the challenge of developing robust decision rules or guidelines to allocate a finite number of public resources. The objective of this study was to gain Canadian genetic health providers' perspectives on factors and criteria that influence and shape resource allocation decisions for publically funded predictive genetic testing in Canada.
Studies of cancer incidence and early management will increasingly draw on routine electronic patient records. However, data may be incomplete or inaccurate. We developed a generalizable strategy for investigating presenting symptoms and delays in diagnosis using ovarian cancer as an example.
The timing of prophylactic antibiotic administration is a patient safety outcome that is recurrently tracked and reported. The interpretation of these data has important implications for patient safety practices. However, diverse data collection methods and approaches to analysis impede knowledge building in this field. This paper makes explicit several challenges to quantifying the timing of prophylactic antibiotics that we encountered during a recent study and offers a suggested protocol for resolving these challenges.
Nucleolin is a major nucleolar phosphoprotein involved in various steps of ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotic cells. As nucleolin plays a significant role in ribosomal RNA transcription we were interested in examining in detail the expression of nucleolin across different stages of spermatogenesis and correlate with the transcription status of ribosomal DNA in germ cells.
Cholinergic neuronal dysfunction of the basal forebrain is observed in patients with Alzheimer's disease and dementia, and has been linked to decreased neurogenesis in the hippocampus, a region involved in learning and memory. Running is a robust inducer of adult hippocampal neurogenesis. This study aims to address the effect of running on hippocampal neurogenesis in lesioned mice, where septohippocampal cholinergic neurones have been selectively eliminated in the medial septum and diagonal band of Broca of the basal forebrain by infusion of mu-p75-saporin immunotoxin.
In vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) studies of HIV-infected humans have demonstrated significant metabolic abnormalities that vary by brain region, but the causes are poorly understood. Metabolic changes in the frontal cortex, basal ganglia and white matter in 18 SIV-infected macaques were investigated using MRS during the first month of infection.
Drosophila larval locomotion consists of forward peristalsis interrupted by episodes of pausing, turning and exploratory behavior (head swinging). This behavior can be regulated by visual input as seen by light-induced increase in pausing, head swinging and direction change as well as reduction of linear speed that characterizes the larval photophobic response. During 3rd instar stage, Drosophila larvae gradually cease to be repelled by light and are photoneutral by the time they wander in search for a place to undergo metamorphosis. Thus, Drosophila larval photobehavior can be used to study control of locomotion.
The burden of disease of hearing disorders among adults is high, but a significant part goes undetected. Screening programs in combination with the delivery of hearing aids can alleviate this situation, but the economic attractiveness of such programs is unknown. This study aims to evaluate the population-level costs, effects and cost-effectiveness of alternative delivering hearing aids models in Tamil Nadu, India
Asthma is the most common chronic disease in childhood, characterized by chronic airway inflammation. There are problems with the diagnosis of asthma in young children since the majority of the children with recurrent asthma-like symptoms is symptom free at 6 years, and does not have asthma. With the conventional diagnostic tools it is not possible to differentiate between preschool children with transient symptoms and children with asthma. The analysis of biomarkers of airway inflammation in exhaled breath is a non-invasive and promising technique to diagnose asthma and monitor inflammation in young children. Moreover, relatively new lung function tests (airway resistance using the interrupter technique) have become available for young children. The primary objective of the ADEM study (Asthma DEtection and Monitoring study), is to develop a non-invasive instrument for an early asthma diagnosis in young children, using exhaled inflammatory markers and early lung function measurements. In addition, aetiological factors, including gene polymorphisms and gene expression profiles, in relation to the development of asthma are studied.
This study is registered by (ClinicalTrials.gov) (NCT00422747).
Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is a thrombolytic widely used clinically in the treatment of acute thrombotic disease such as ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and deep venous thrombosis. This has led to much interest in tPA based lytic therapies leading to laboratory based in-vitro and in-vivo investigations using this drug. However, tPA reconstituted in solution exhibits full activity for only 6-8 hours, according to the manufacturer. Therefore, methods to store reconstituted tPA for long durations while maintaining activity would be of assistance to laboratories using this enzyme.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a highly heritable developmental disorder resulting from complex gene-gene and gene-environment interactions. The most widely used animal model, the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), displays the major symptoms of ADHD (deficits in attention, impulsivity and hyperactivity) and has a disturbance in the noradrenergic system when compared to control Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). The aim of the present study was to determine whether the ADHD-like characteristics of SHR were purely genetically determined or dependent on the gene-environment interaction provided by the SHR dam.
Autofluorescence bronchoscopy is more sensitive than conventional bronchoscopy for detecting early airway mucosal lesions. Decreased specificity can lead to excessive biopsy and increased procedural time. Onco-LIFE, a device that combines fluorescence and reflectance imaging, allows numeric representation by expressing red-to-green ratio (R/G ratio) within the region of interest. The aim of the study was to determine if color fluorescence ratio (R/G ratio) added to autofluorescence bronchoscopy could provide an objective means to guide biopsy.
Antilipoprotein lipase (anti-LPL) antibodies were described in rheumatic diseases. In systemic lupus erythematosus they were highly associated with inflammatory markers and dyslipidemia, and may ultimately contribute to vascular damage. The relevance of this association in Takayasu's arteritis, which is characterized by major inflammatory process affecting vessels, has not been determined.
The frequency of primary systemic small vessel vasculitides (PSV) varies among different geographic regions and age categories. We studied PSV in patients from middle-eastern Crete (Greece), and compared clinical characteristics in younger (&lt;65 years) versus older (&gt; or = 65 years) adult patients.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major cause of increased mortality in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, and it is recommended to treat risk factors for CVD in RA patients aggressively, including increased lipid levels. However, the effect of biological disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) on the lipid profile of RA patients remains under-researched, and what data exist are often contradictory.
Imbalance of haemostasis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) contributes to future risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Prothrombotic molecules, e.g. fibrinogen, D-dimer, and tPA are elevated in plasma of RA patients, being associated to CVD. There is no imformation about the influence of biological drugs, e.g. anti-CD20 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antibodies on these prothrombotic molecules.
The growing number of older individuals among hospitalized patients demands a thorough investigation of the factors that contribute to their mortality.
The goal of antihypertensive treatment is to reduce blood pressure without interfering in health-related quality of life (HRQL) OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the influence of hypertension control upon HRQL in hypertensive patients with and without complications.
MDD is underdiagnosed in medical settings, possibly because of difficulties in the recognition of specific depressive symptoms.
A cataract is defined as an opacity of any portion of the lens, regardless of visual acuity. In some advanced cases of cataracts, in which good fundus visualization is not possible, an ultrasound examination provides better assessment of the posterior segment of the globe.
Ovarian cancer is generally diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease; therefore, poor prognoses are typical. The development of tumor markers is thus of utmost importance. Prostasin is a protease that in normal tissues is highly expressed only in the prostate gland and seminal fluid. A previous study showed that prostasin is highly overexpressed in ovarian cancer cell lines. This study sought to evaluate the expression of prostasin in ovarian cancer.
The within-breath analysis of respiratory mechanics by the monofrequency Forced Oscillation Technique (mFOT) is of great interest in both physiopathology studies and the diagnosis of respiratory diseases. However, there are limited data on the use of this technique in the analysis of asthma. This study evaluates within-breath mechanics of asthmatic individuals and the contribution of the mFOT in the asthma diagnosis.
Automated perimetry (AP) is a psychophysical test used to assess visual fields in patients with neurological disorders and glaucoma. In a previous study, Fiorelli et al. showed that young subjects who listened to a Mozart sonata prior to undergoing AP performed better in terms of reliability than those who did not listen to the sonata.
Non-invasive detection of atherosclerosis is critical for its prevention.
Bariatric surgery has become increasingly more recommended for the treatment of morbidly obese individuals for whom it is possible to identify co-morbidities other than alterations in pulmonary function. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of conventional chest physiotherapy (CCP) and of conventional physiotherapy associated with transcutaneous electrical diaphragmatic stimulation (CCP+TEDS) on pulmonary function and respiratory muscle strength in patients who have undergone Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.
The thoracodorsal artery perforator (TDAP) flap has been described for reconstruction of the head and neck, trunk and extremities. Yet, its use as a pedicled flap in breast reconstruction has not gained wide popularity and has not been widely documented, especially not for complete breast reconstruction or in combination with expanders or permanent implants. The authors present their clinical experience with the thoracodorsal artery perforator flap in breast reconstruction.
Based partially on encouraging findings from preclinical models, interest has grown in therapeutic inhibition of NF-kappaB to limit inflammatory injury during sepsis. However, NF-kappaB also regulates protective responses, and predicting the net survival effects of such inhibition may be difficult.
Even established and effective antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) in atrial fibrillation (AF) are limited by their pro-arrhythmic and non-target organ side effects. Therefore the search continues for safer and effective new AADs.
Acute biliary diseases during pregnancy have been classically managed conservatively. Advances in minimally invasive surgery and the high recurrence rate of symptoms observed changed this management.
We collected rare cases of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) undergoing malignant transformation. We sought to identify human papillomavirus (HPV) subtypes in areas of papilloma, dysplasia, and carcinoma and investigate the pattern of protein overexpression.
Stomal recurrence after total laryngectomy is 1 of the most serious issues in head and neck surgery, both because of the complexity of its management and because of its morbidity. Prior to the introduction of free-tissue transfer, mediastinal tracheostomy has been the standard reconstructive procedure with high rate of complications. The ideal reconstructive solution to these problems must provide well-vascularized soft tissues that can cover the defect after resection and also allow suturing of the tracheal remnant to skin edges without tension.
A brass instrument is a musical instrument in which the tone is produced by vibration of the lips as the player blows into a tubular resonator. The case of a professional brass player who continued his activity after total laryngectomy, with insertion of a voice prosthesis in a tracheoesophageal shunt, is reported.
We conducted this longitudinal prospective study to illustrate a surgical technique for swallowing rehabilitation of patients after partial laryngectomy.
Oral leukoplakia (OL) is a common oral precancerous lesion. Cotton-swab cryotherapy (CSC) is commonly used for treating skin lesions but is rarely used for treating OL lesions.
Gene amplification status of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) were analyzed and correlated with clinical outcome in patients with progressive malignant salivary glands tumors (MSGT) treated with the dual EGFR/Her2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor lapatinib.
There are known to be variations in the origins of the superior thyroid artery (STA), an important surgical landmark, and 1 of its branches, the superior laryngeal artery (SLA).
First bite syndrome is the development of pain in the parotid region after the first bite of each meal and can be seen after surgery of the parapharyngeal space. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of intraglandular injection of botulinum toxin type A (BTA) in patients with first bite syndrome.
Survivin, an inhibitor of apoptosis, is overexpressed in cancer. It has been implicated in both prevention of apoptosis and cell cycle regulation. We investigated the distribution of antiapoptotic protein survivin in 29 oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and 16 oral premalignant lesions. It has been suggested that wild-type p53 represses survivin expression. Therefore, we investigated the status of p53 in relation to survivin to determine the potential involvement in oral tumorigenesis.
Patients with T4 oral cavity (OC) tumors are often treated with surgery followed by adjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT).
Physician's perception of quality of life of patients with cancer is unclear. No reports have evaluated its influence on patient management.
An inhibitory effect of D-allose, a rare sugar, on several cancer cell lines has been reported. This study aimed to investigate the growth inhibition of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cells by D-allose.
Our aim was to determine exercise preferences among patients with head and neck cancer and their associations with quality of life, symptom severity, depression, and rural residence.
In patients with head and neck cancer, radiation treatment (RT) is a risk factor for hypothyroidism. However, the specific magnitude of risk after RT in older patients is not known.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeted therapy has been extensively assessed in human cancer treatment. We appraised the possible role of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in areca quid (AQ)-associated oral cavity squamous cell carcinomas (OSCCs) by examining EGFR protein overexpression and its tyrosine kinase domain mutations.
Missing data is classified as missing completely at random (MCAR), missing at random (MAR) or missing not at random (MNAR). Knowing the mechanism is useful in identifying the most appropriate analysis. The first aim was to compare different methods for identifying this missing data mechanism to determine if they gave consistent conclusions. Secondly, to investigate whether the reminder-response data can be utilised to help identify the missing data mechanism.
NCT00427232.
Recently, it has been reported that frequent premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) may be associated with causing heart failure in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. However, the prognostic significance of frequent PVCs in asymptomatic patients with a normal LV function is unclear.
In patients with ischaemic cardiomyopathy and viable myocardium, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) does not always improve after revascularisation. Whether this may affect prognosis is unclear.
Within the spectrum of congenital heart disease referred to as hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), there is variation in the morphology and function of the left ventricle which could influence outcomes after stage I Norwood palliation.
In the UK, a national personal child health record (PCHR) with local adaptations is in widespread use. Previous studies report that parents find the PCHR useful and that health visitors use it more than other health professionals. This study was carried out in Nottingham, where the local PCHR is similar to the national PCHR.
A strong association is reported between maternal drug use and child abuse in North American studies. There are no systematic data describing this association for the UK population. Given the heterogeneous nature of drug cultures and associated behaviour it is difficult to generalize from US data to the UK population.
To establish the relationship between sleep apnoea and gastro-oesophageal reflux in infants and describe the clinical, demographic and pHmetric profile and the characteristic of the sleep polysomnography with a pH probe.
With increasing numbers of women joining the evening/night-time and extended-hour workforce, there is a need for quality childcare during these hours. This project, conducted in Japan, sought to compare the effects of expanded childcare on the development and adaptation of 648 young children after 2 years in care.
The increased risk of common infectious diseases associated with child day care attendance may vary by age, health plan and parent educational level. This study determined quantitatively the risk of diarrhoeal illness and upper respiratory infection (URI) among day-care children in comparison with home-care children. It examined the extent of risks in day-care children under different conditions of three age groups, enrolled in two health plans, and from families of two levels of education.
This study examines the relationship between actual weight status and perceptions of body weight in Bahraini adolescents. The study also investigates the adolescents' perceptions of parents' and peers' opinions of weight.
This paper recounts the difficulties experienced when the authors sought access to children in hospital for social research interviews. These were part of a 2-year study, funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, aiming to explore the numbers, circumstances and experiences of children who spend prolonged periods in health care settings.
Despite the availability of effective screening measures, primary care providers continue to fail to identify and manage many children with psychosocial problems. One of the best predictors of identification by a primary care physician is whether mothers disclose concerns about their child's psychosocial functioning to their child's physician. This study examined if maternal distress and child behaviour predicted whether mothers had and discussed concerns about their child's behaviour and emotions with paediatricians.
There are reports and controversy in the literature of supranormal (defined as &gt;55%) differential renal function (DRF) in the hydronephrotic kidney in children with unilateral hydronephrosis. It is not confirmed whether supranormal DRF is an artifact or a true finding. In patients in whom the relative renal function deteriorates, relief of obstruction becomes surgically necessary and if this artifact can be removed. Supranormal function in an obstructed kidney is confusing and there is no consensus on how to manage these patients. There is no agreement if this is a true entity or an artifact. We wanted to address this issue by reporting our experience.
The goal of this investigation was to understand clinicians' perceptions of the probability of pulmonary embolism as a function of V/Q scan results of normal, low, intermediate, and high probability.
Most cognitive screening instruments are tailored to detect symptoms of cortical dysfunction in the elderly. Therefore, subcortical cognitive dysfunction may be missed using these tests. The aim of this study was to validate the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Dementia Scale (HDS), a screening test developed to detect subcortical cognitive dysfunction in young HIV-infected patients, in a group of elderly patients with subcortical cognitive impairment (SCI) caused by subcortical ischaemic vascular disease (SIVD) or a normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH).
Although providing excellent outcome results, laparoscopy also induces particular pathophysiological changes in response to pneumoperitoneum. Knowledge of the pathophysiology of a CO(2) pneumoperitoneum can help minimize complications while profiting from the benefits of laparoscopic surgery without concerns about its safety.
Post-cholecystectomy syndrome encompasses numerous biliary, pancreatic and other entities. Biliary ascariasis is a common cause of adult biliary disease in an endemic area. Post-cholecystectomy biliary ascariasis, a cause of post- cholecystectomy syndrome although not yet defined is frequently seen in this part of the world.
No agreement has been found in the literature concerning the safest point of ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery (ima) in order to avoid nerve damage during the surgery of rectal cancer.
Careful selection of patients for the operation plays a major role in long-term results of silastic ring vertical gastroplasty. The objective of the current study is to identify predictive factors for the objective (excess weight loss) and subjective (satisfaction) success of silastic ring vertical gastroplasty (SRVG) for morbid obesity.
In recent years, liver transplantation in patients with hepatocellular cancers and cirrhosis has been restricted to those with small cancers (&lt;5 cm for solitary and &lt;3 cm for multifocal HCC with &lt;3 nodules). The selection of patients for liver transplantation is based on pre-operative imaging. The accuracy of imaging correlated with explant histology and the effect of tumour stage has not been evaluated in this selected population.
Endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) are present in peripheral blood and can develop a functional endothelial phenotype. The number and function of circulating EPCs are altered in atherosclerosis, diabetes, and after myocardial infarction and EPCs have been shown to promote postnatal angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. We investigated the number and adhesive properties of EPCs from patients with unstable angina and no evidence of cardiac necrosis.
The risk of developing decompression illness (DCI) in divers with a patent foramen ovale (PFO) has not been directly determined so far; neither has it been assessed in relation to the PFO's size.
Long-term survival and clinical outcome after surgical closure of a VSD is poorly documented. Such data are important for the future perspectives, medical care, employability, and insurability of these patients.
In a monochorionic twin gestation, hydrops in one fetus often results from placental transfusion, accompanied by intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) of the non-hydropic fetus.
The involvement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in periodontal pathology is unclear but will be modulated by in vivo antioxidant defence systems. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to determine both local (saliva and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) and peripheral (plasma and serum) antioxidant capacity in periodontal health and disease.
Treatment with enamel matrix proteins (EMD) or guided tissue regeneration (GTR) has been shown to enhance periodontal regeneration. However, until now there are limited data on the long-term results following these treatment modalities.
Periodontal therapy coupled with careful maintenance has been shown to be effective in maintaining periodontal health; however, a small number of teeth are still lost because of progressive periodontitis.
The plasminogen activator (PA) system plays many roles in the inflammatory process and tissue remodelling and repair and is considered to play a significant role in periodontal tissue destruction and healing. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of the PA system in cyclosporin A (CsA)-induced gingival overgrowth in renal transplant patients.
A major aspect of the adaptive host response in periodontitis is the production of antibodies. Several risk and susceptibility factors for periodontitis, including smoking, age and composition of the subgingival microflora, have also been suggested to influence antibody production.
The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between monthly tomato consumption (MTC) and serum lycopene (sLyco) levels, and a self-reported history of congestive heart failure (CHF) in individuals with periodontitis using data available in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III).
Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) can occur in patients maintained on immunosuppressive therapy following transplantation. This paper describes two cases of PTLD occurring in gingival tissues, in patients receiving ciclosporin following cardiac transplantation.
Hypertension is often undiagnosed, untreated, undertreated, and poorly controlled. Many patients use the emergency department as their primary source of health care, and the emergency department represents an opportunity to identify undiagnosed hypertension. We sought to (1) identify the prevalence of elevated blood pressures in low-acuity patients and (2) describe the existing practice of reassessment, treatment, and referral of abnormal vital signs in these patients.
The invasive treatment of chronic lower extremity peripheral arterial disease (PAD) has become inconsistent. To standardize treatment at our institution, the Lower Extremity Grading System (LEGS) score was devised, based on arteriographic findings, symptoms, functional status, comorbid conditions, and technical factors. The scoring system was used to direct the invasive treatment approach in patients with lower extremity PAD. The purpose of this study was to prospectively assess outcomes of invasive treatment of lower extremity ischemia as directed by LEGS.
Management of a nonhealing femoral wound after vascular surgery can pose a challenging problem, particularly when there is prosthetic material involved. We prefer to use pedicled gracilis muscle flaps (PGMFs) to cover problematic groin wounds when more conventional management is not possible.
In human beings, chronic venous insufficiency is linked to venous hypertension. This in turn is associated with venous valve incompetence. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that venous hypertension serves to initiate a process that results in the venous valve and venous wall damage observed in venous insufficiency. Material and methods Acute venous hypertension was produced by creation of an arteriovenous (AV) fistula between the femoral artery and vein in Wistar rats. At specified intervals pressure in the veins was recorded. The proximal valve containing saphenous vein was exposed, and reflux was measured from reverse blood flow through the first proximal valve. The vein was excised, valve parameters were measured, a portion was taken for morphologic investigation, and the remaining specimen was frozen in liquid nitrogen for investigation of leukocyte infiltration, expression of adhesion molecules, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) levels, and apoptotic markers. Contralateral nonpressurized saphenous veins were used as control specimens.
Data collected from registries provide a useful source of information for clinical practice. Therefore, several regional and national registries of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients have been established. The Lombardy Registry of Dialysis and Transplantation (RLDT) was established in 1982, with participation of all 44 dialysis units that were present at that time within the region.
Patient death continues to be a leading cause of renal transplant failure. This mortality is mainly due to cardiovascular, infectious and tumoural diseases. The aim of our study was to analyse the evolution of the mortality and its causes after renal transplantation (RT).
The use of elderly donors is becoming more frequent. An increase in the donor's age is associated with a greater incidence of delayed graft function (DGF), chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) and worse graft survival. Poor renal graft function is a risk factor for cardiovascular (CV) complications and, finally, for mortality of the patients.
Age of renal transplants has been related to death, alloimmune response and graft outcome. We reviewed the influence of patient age on transplant outcome in three cohorts of patients transplanted in Spain during the 1990 s.
Chronic graft nephropathy is the most frequent cause of long-term renal transplant loss. Although immunological causes participate in its pathogenesis, other non-immunological factors such as hyperfiltration due to reduced renal mass have been proposed as causal factors of chronic renal graft nephropathy.
Several groups have demonstrated that non-heart beating donation is a viable source of organs for transplantation. However, the theoretically worse graft function and survival of the kidneys obtained from non-heart beating donors (NHBDs) is still a matter of debate that has led to consider them as marginal donors for kidney transplantation.
Acute rejection episodes are a major determinant of renal allograft survival, and the improvement of the transplantation results in the last two decades is largely due to a progressive decrease in the incidence of acute rejection. These results are explained by the incorporation of new immunosuppressive agents since the introduction of cyclosporine. Because the detrimental effect of acute rejection on graft survival is not limited to the early post-transplant period, we have focused on the impact of acute rejection episodes on late transplant failure in patients with the graft functioning 1 year after transplantation.
The last decade has witnessed a sustained improvement of renal allograft survival that is partly explained by a better preservation of renal allograft function. This study describes time-dependent modifications of serum creatinine (SCr) during the first year after transplantation in the last decade in Spain and characterizes the predictive value of SCr on death-censored graft survival.
Proteinuria developing after renal transplantation is associated with increased renal failure. Moreover, proteinuria in the general population has been shown to be associated with morbidity and mortality due to cardiovascular disease, which is the main cause of death in renal transplant patients. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether persistent proteinuria following renal transplantation was associated with a worse patient and graft survival.
Although new immunosuppressive agents have improved the results of renal transplants (RTs), long-term graft loss remains high. We evaluated the impact of different immunosuppressive regimens on patient and graft survival.
The increasing prevalence of pre-existing diabetes mellitus (DM) and especially the incidence of post-transplant diabetes mellitus (PTDM) is a disturbing tendency with far-reaching health and cost implications. We assessed the factors associated with PTDM and the impact of either condition on death-censored graft and patient survival.
Arterial hypertension is a common clinical problem in renal transplantation, with important consequences on graft and patient survival.
Chronic liver disease is one of the most important complications after renal transplantation. Hepatitis B and mainly hepatitis C are the more frequent causes of liver disease. Although there are controversial results, in some series, hepatitis B and hepatitis C are associated with lower graft and patient survival.
The new immunosuppressive drugs control acute rejection better, and have potentially short-term economic advantages. However, their long-term cost-effectiveness must still be determined. The Spanish study of chronic transplant nephropathy provides data that facilitates the assessment of the economic importance of maintenance immunosuppression (MI).
Telemedicine is a new way of delivering health care to people, particularly in remote areas. The UK has experienced a surge of telematic projects in recent years. However, there is little information available in the literature regarding the past and present of telemedicine in the UK.
This study was designed to examine plasma concentrations of BNP and its relation to hemodynamic parameters in patients (pts.) with coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
The ideal myocardial protection during isolated CABG is still a matter of debate. Cardioplegia versus intermittent aortic cross-clamping (IACC) are the main opponents; the following article shows that IACC can be safe, efficient and might be cheaper than cardioplegia.
Stenoses of the neo-pulmonary artery (NPA) may complicate follow-up of the arterial switch operation (ASO). It is unknown whether the type of patch covering the coronary excision defects ("O"- or "U"-shaped) might influence this complication.
Tumors metastatic to the breast are quite unusual (1.2% of all tumors). Malignant melanoma is an exception and is one of the principal metastasizing tumors, described mainly as a primary tumor. There are 5 different cytologic patterns; the spindled pattern is very uncommon, more difficult to diagnose and can be confused with a wide range of sarcomatous lesions. Nevertheless, there are some cytologic features that allow differentiation from similar tumors.
Epithelioid sarcoma is a rare soft part tumor, the cytologic features of which have not been fully elucidated to date. We describe the cytologic features in 2 cases of primary epithelioid sarcoma with samples obtained by fine needle aspiration (FNA).
Chordoid meningioma is a rare subtype of meningioma characterized by myxoid matrices deposited among epithelioid or vacuolated tumor cells and infiltrates of inflammatory cells, and its cytologic features have rarely been reported.
Solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) is a rare neoplasm that most commonly involves the pleura but is increasingly recognized at other locations, including lung, liver, thyroid and parotid glands, with only a few reports describing its cytologic features.
Cholecystitis is a common inflammatory disease of the gallbladder. Actinomycosis and candidiasis of the gallbladder are uncommon causes of acute cholecystitis. There has been no previous report on the cytologic diagnosis of actinomycosis and candidiasis from aspirated gallbladder bile intraoperatively.
Intravascular lymphomatosis (IVL) of the brain is a rare non-Hodgkin's lymphoma characterized by proliferation of tumor cells in the lumina of blood vessels. Although an intraoperative cytologic examination of the brain is routinely done, the cytologic features of IVL are rarely encountered by pathologists. We report a case of IVL diagnosed by an intraoperative cytology preparation.
Hemophagocytic histiocytosis (HPS) is an idiopathic, familial or secondary syndrome characterized by mature histiocytes causing intensive erythrophagocytosis.
Although granulomas can occur in association with malignant neoplasms, including some subtypes of lymphoma, they have been described rarely in marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZCL). To our knowledge, the cytologic features of this association have not been documented. We present the cytologic findings with fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) of an unusual case of MZCL with concomitant granulomas.
AIDS-related body cavity-based lymphoma, or primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), is a distinct clinicopathologic entity that occurs predominantly in immunosuppressed patients infected with human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8), also known as Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus. Although it rarely occurs in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative patients, we report such a case here.
There have been only 4 reported cases of cribriform-morular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (CMVPTC) with cytologic findings from fine needle aspiration. In these reports, the cytologic findings do not fully reflect the histologic characteristics of this entity. We report a case of CMVPTC in which a cribriform pattern without colloid and epithelial morules with peculiar nuclear clearing (PNC) were present in smears, thus fulfilling the criteria for a cytologic diagnosis of CMVPTC. Protein truncation tests for APC molecule abnormality indicated the presence of germline mutation in the patient's APC gene.
Intrathyroidal parathyroid neoplasms (IPNs) are uncommon tumors with an indolent clinical course. When asymptomatic, they can be incorrectly diagnosed as thyroid neoplasms on fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB), leading to inappropriate surgical treatment.
Thymolipomas are the most outstanding mesenchymal mediastinal tumors although they represent only a small percentage of thymic neoplasms. Their histogenesis remains unsolved, and they are usually benign. Fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) has become the method of choice for the study of mediastinal tumors, including thymolipomas. Making the correct diagnosis depends on the availability of all thymic and lipomatous components as well as on the correct application of a differential diagnosis with other lipomatous tumors.
Pituitary prolactinoma containing spherical amyloid is rare. Squash smear findings of spherical amyloid in pituitary prolactinoma are characteristic.
Diagnosis of GERD is based on presence of symptoms (heartburn) associated to abnormal esophageal acid exposure or esophageal erosions determined by 24-hr pH monitoring and/or endoscopy, respectively. Different instruments have been evaluated in order to diagnose GERD without invasive studies. Carlsson-Dent questionnaire (CDQ), validated among European patients, have shown good sensitivity and positive predictive values for detection of GERD. Diagnostic usefulness of the CDQ in Mexican patients is unknown.
It is a common practice in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients, to perform multiple diagnostic tests to rule out organic diseases. However, its usefulness has not yet been evaluated in Mexico.
Patients with gastrointestinal reflux disease GERD perceive &lt; 5% of acid reflux episodes, independently of GERD type. The role of minimal changes on esophageal pH (1 or 2 units) on development of symptoms is unknown.
This continuing education activity is intended for physicians and nurses with an interest in identifying and managing skin lesions in patients with HIV/AIDS.
Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) blockade using infliximab, a chimeric anti-TNFalpha antibody, is an effective treatment for both psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis (PsA).
Measurement of skin involvement is essential for diagnosis and prognosis in systemic sclerosis. Assessment by palpation skin score is the current method.
Evidence for disease modifying activity of low dose corticosteroid treatment in rheumatoid arthritis is contradictory. Studies showing radiological benefit suggest that continued treatment is required to sustain the effect.
Hypoandrogenicity is common in obesity and in chronic inflammatory diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Adrenal androgens such as androstenedione (ASD) and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) sulphate are low, which partly depends on the influence of TNF in chronic inflammatory diseases. Leptin is stimulated by TNF and is associated with hypoandrogenicity in non-inflammatory conditions.
Serum amyloid P component (SAP) and acute phase proteins like C-reactive protein contribute to the clearance of apoptotic cells. This response is diminished in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
The relationship between inflammation and joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has not been unequivocally characterised. Joint destruction may result from the cumulative inflammatory burden over time, modified by an individual constant factor.
Vertebral fractures are associated with a reduction in quality of life and are an important predictor of other non-spine fractures. Previous work has shown that up to 60% of patients with a vertebral fracture identified in primary care remain untreated.
Pityriasis versicolor is a superficial infection of the stratum corneum which caused by a group of yeasts formerly named pityrosporium. The taxonomy of these lipophilic yeasts has recently been modified and includes seven species referred as Malassezia. The aim of this study is to compare the distribution of Malassezia species isolated from pityriasis versicolor lesions and those isolated from healthy skins.
One third of all the hip fractures occur in men. The risk for mortality following hip fracture is higher for men compared to women. The Fracture Intervention Trial (FIT) showed that the bisphosphonate alendronate reduces the risk of fractures and increases bone mineral density (BMD) in osteoporotic women. Similar effects of alendronate were observed in men in some other trials. There are also results demonstrating alendronate to be cost-effective in the treatment of osteoporosis in women.
Traffic of potentially harmful cytosolic messengers through gap junctions might cause increased injury during ischemia. The present study was to determine whether the infarct size-reducing effect of adjunctive estradiol administration prior to reperfusion is associated with an attenuated expression of connexin43 at the border of infarction in a canine model.
We examined the influence of the 4G/5G PAI-1 (plasminogen activator inhibitor) genotype on Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced PAI-1 expression by human endothelial cells (HUVEC) in the presence and absence of AT1-receptor blocker losartan, and screened for this polymorphism in relation to plasma PAI-1 and arterial pressure in apparently healthy subjects.
Long QT syndrome [LQTS] is a congenital cardiac disease characterised by prolonged QTC-time, syncopes and sudden cardiac death. LQTS is caused by mutations in genes coding for ion channels involved in the action potential. KCNE5 codes for a novel beta-subunit of the ion channel conducting the delayed rectifier repolarizing current IKs. As KCNE5 is expressed in the human heart and suppresses the IKs current in heterologous systems, it is a candidate gene that may be mutated in LQTS families where no causative mutations in known LQTS associated genes have been found. We examined whether this was the case.
The adrenal gland is the election organ forming primary neuroblastoma (NB) tumours, the most common extracranial solid tumours of infancy and childhood.
Cocaethylene (CE) is a conjugate of cocaine and ethanol that may contribute to the pathogenesis of systemic vascular diseases. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of CE on human microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC-1) in culture.
Despite the widespread use of quantitative methods to measure D-dimer, clinical decisions commonly are based only on binary test information (positive/negative). This study aimed to determine the significance of quantitative D-dimer results in the evaluation of venous thromboembolism (VTE) by means of a differentiated Bayesian approach.
Diabetes mellitus manifests itself in a wide variety of complications and the symptoms of the disease are multi-factorial.
To investigate the ratio of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) to tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP) in primary Sjgren's syndrome (PSS), patients and healthy subjects MMP-2, 9 and TIMP-1, 2 levels were measured in saliva.
Glucose can covalently bind to the proteins by nonenzymatic process often termed glycation. Glycation of IgG is of special interest due to its possible influence on the functionality of immunoglobulins and overall immunocompetence.
The determination of the ratio free/protein-bound serum copper along with urinary copper can be used as a preliminary test for the Wilson's Disease diagnosis. In this work, the determination of these copper fractions in serum samples was carried out in two different ways; after separation of the copper bound to proteins from the free fraction by a column for protein adsorption and by ultrafiltration. As proteins can be adsorbed onto plastic polymeric surfaces, polyethylene (PE) with different molecular weights in powder form was investigated for protein adsorption. A small column was adapted in a flow system to carry out a solid-phase extraction (SPE) on-line. Preliminary experiments defined conditions for protein retention and elution and column saturation. Good performance was achieved using Mg(NO3)2 solution as carrier and methanol as eluent. The presence of proteins in both fraction (column effluent and eluate) was checked by the Coomassie Brilliant Blue test. Copper was measured by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry. The measurement in the column effluent furnished the free-fraction of copper while the copper measured in the eluate the bound-fraction. The method was compared with ultrafiltration (20 kDa), measuring the free-copper in the ultrafiltrate. For the determination of protein-bound copper, the copper found in the ultrafitrate was discounted from the total copper measured in the sample.
This study determines the analytical characteristics of the i-STAT cardiac troponin I assay (cTnI; i-STAT, Princeton, NJ), a 10-min POC assay, designed to be performed at the bedside.
Toxic nitrite and N-nitroso compounds due to gastric bacterial growth are often detected in the stomach of patients with atrophic gastritis and partial gastrectomy. The aim of this study is to investigate whether breath N2O, a major metabolite of denitrification, detected after ingestion of nitrate is associated with atrophic gastritis and partial gastrectomy.
The mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) are a group of inherited metabolic disorders resulting from the deficiency of the enzyme responsible for intralysosomal catabolism of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). GAGs are progressively accumulated in multiple tissues and released into the corporal fluids. The first laboratory approximation to MPS diagnosis is the identification of an increased urinary GAG excretion. For this, several semiquantitative and quantitative methods have been developed. The aim of this retrospective statistical study was to evaluate the reliability of MPS urine screening for the semiquantitative Berry spot test (BST) and the quantitative dimethylmethylene blue test (DMB).
Oxidative stress plays an important role in chronic complications of diabetes mellitus and hence the regulation of free radicals is essential in the treatment of diabetes. The protective effect of a new macrocyclic binuclear oxovanadium complex on antioxidant defense systems of liver and kidney was examined in streptozotocin-induced experimental diabetes in rats.
Superoxide dismutases (SOD) play an important role in the protection of cells and extracellular space from the products of oxidative stress. Two allelic variants have been described for the SOD2 gene (Ile58Thr involves a C to T substitution at nucleotide residue 339 and Ala-9Val involves a T to C substitution at nucleotide residue 1183). The enzyme proteins encoded by the different alleles have been suggested to have different activity patterns.
Increased oxidative stress is considered to be causative for cardiovascular disease (CVD) in smokers, but its mechanisms are still unclear. We compared oxidative stress markers between male smokers and male nonsmokers.
Alcohol abuse and dependence can be disabling disorders, but accurate information is lacking on the prevalence of current DSM-IV alcohol abuse and dependence and how this has changed over the past decade. The purpose of this study was to present nationally representative data on the prevalence of 12-month DSM-IV alcohol abuse and dependence in 2001-2002 and, for the first time, to examine trends in alcohol abuse and dependence between 1991-1992 and 2001-2002.
A large number of patients seen in clinical practice have an underlying alcohol problem. There is a pressing need for accurate methods to diagnose alcohol over-consumption objectively. Our aim was to determine how best to use biological markers to objectify alcohol problems in patients with clinical suspicion of alcohol misuse.
Carisoprodol is a centrally acting muscle relaxant commonly used for lower back pain. It is a drug of abuse and has been detected among impaired drivers. Carisoprodol's active metabolite meprobamate is thought to act through the GABA(A) receptor complex and produces a well-known impairing effect. It is unclear whether therapeutic intake of carisoprodol leads to impairment, and the effect of supratherapeutic doses has not been investigated. Possible impairment could further be a product of the parent drug and/or the metabolite meprobamate. The present study aimed to investigate if carisoprodol had an impairing effect by it self.
The benefit of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in oesophageal cancer has been extensively studied but data on survival are still equivocal.
It is not known which region of the stomach is responsible for symptom generation or whether symptoms induced by gastric distension are region specific. Also, it is unclear whether low level gastric distension has a modulatory role on gastric tone and mechanosensitivity.
Leptin regulates appetite through the long isoform of its receptor in the hypothalamus. Although leptin regulates immune responses, it is still unknown whether a direct effect of leptin on lymphocytes is required.
Overexpression of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) in pancreatic cancer cells promotes invasion and proliferation in vitro and tumour growth and angiogenesis in vivo.
The conditions associated with fatty liver disease presenting with normal liver enzymes and the mechanism involved in its development remain to be fully elucidated.
To determine the cardiological substrate in acute stroke patients presenting with a cardioembolic stroke subtype.
The prevalence of angina after invasive revascularization is not negligible and impacts on quality of life. It has not been clarified whether potential anti-ischemic actions of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (1) may apply to non high-risk patients and (2) may reduce the prevalence of angina. We sought to test the hypothesis that ramipril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, may reduce the postrevascularization prevalence of angina pectoris and improve quality of life.
It is known that children with previously diagnosed heart defects die suddenly. The causes of death are often unknown.
Despite the fact that heart failure constitutes a major health problem there are only limited data regarding pharmacotherapy along with characterization and prognosis of heart failure in the community.
Amiodarone is a potent antiarrhythmic agent that is limited in clinical use by its adverse effects, including potentially life threatening amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity (AIPT). The alteration of technetium-99m diethyltriaminepentaaceticacid (Tc-99m DTPA) radioaerosol lung clearance in AIPT was experimentally investigated.
The rapid adoption of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in Korea is provoking a widespread concern about possible overuse of this procedure with inappropriate indications. This study aimed to assess the rate of appropriate application of PTCA in Korea and investigate factors affecting this rate.
The Tei index is commonly used as a measure of "combined systolic and diastolic function". A sensitive and specific index of intrinsic myocardial contraction and relaxation would be independent of abnormal activation. We aimed to determine whether the Tei index fulfils this criterion in patients with normal activation or left bundle branch block (LBBB), normal or dilated left ventricular (LV) cavities, with or without coronary artery disease (CAD).
Various vasomotor responses to acetylcholine have been observed after coronary angioplasty. However, the relationship between the grade of vascular injury due to balloon angioplasty and vasomotor response to acetylcholine in the chronic stage is unknown. In this study we examined the correlation between the morphology immediately after coronary angioplasty and the vasomotor response to acetylcholine 1 year after angioplasty.
Echocardiography of endurance athletes has demonstrated a substantial increase in left ventricular mass with no disturbance of diastolic function as assessed by the e:a ratio. Few studies have examined the right ventricle of athletes. The present study evaluated diastolic function of both right and left ventricles of endurance athletes through use of measurements of the motion of the atrioventricular (AV) plane.
The risk of early sudden death before hospital admission is higher in diabetic than non-diabetic men with acute myocardial infarction and autonomic nervous activity may modify the clinical outcome of abrupt coronary occlusion. Since diabetes mellitus may interfere with autonomic and myocardial function, we decided to study whether diabetes alters autonomic and haemodynamic responses to acute coronary occlusion.
The effects of atrial internal cardioversion on QT interval and QT dispersion (parameters associated with increased risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias) are unknown. We investigated changes in QT interval, QTc and QT dispersion immediately after shock delivery for internal cardioversion in patients with chronic persistent atrial fibrillation.
ECG identification of apical myocardial infarction (MI) is controversial and lacks of accuracy. Our aim was to investigate the sensitivity of different proposed ECG criteria in the presence of apical perfusion defects assessed with SPECT analysis.
Vascular inflammation generating oxidized metabolites at the site of balloon angioplasty is believed to play a major role in the process of vessel restenosis. Glutathione, the most potent endogenous antioxidant, may have protective effects after angioplasty by suppressing local inflammatory response. The aim of the study was to test the hypothesis that oral administration of N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC, a precursor of glutathione) reduces restenosis in an animal model of vascular injury.
The characteristics of unique ECG findings in the Brugada syndrome have not been well explained.
Hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-CoA-reductase inhibitors (statins) reduce cardiovascular events by cholesterol lowering as well as non-lipid related actions. Among them, the modulation of fibrinolysis could play a relevant role in vascular protection. Atorvastatin is able of reducing platelet activity and thrombin generation before low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) decrease in hypercholesterolemic subjects in which coagulation and fibrinolysis are linked by the activation of thrombin activable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI). The aim of our study was to evaluate whether atorvastatin could modulate fibrinolysis by interactions with endothelial mechanisms and thrombin generation.
Left ventricular (LV) diastolic dysfunction is an early sign, and may be more sensitive indicator, of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) than systolic dysfunction.
Collagen structure is a key element in mitral valves. Collagen defects were proposed as the primary events causing floppy mitral valves (FMV). The role of collagen genetic variant in floppy mitral valve/mitral valve prolapse (FMV/MVP) has not been well studied. The purpose of this study is to investigate the possible relationship between the collagen gene polymorphisms and risk of FMV/MVP among the Chinese population in Taiwan.
Coronary ischaemic syndromes are associated with neutrophil activation. The Bayer automated haematology analysers can detect increased light scatter of neutrophil populations, which correlates with neutrophil activation. We aimed to assess the role of an automated analyser in detecting systemic neutrophil activation in peripheral blood samples of patients with coronary ischaemia.
The role of routine functional testing following successful PCI is unclear. By improving patient outcomes with coronary stenting, the value of such a strategy may diminish.
Thus far, there is no established systemic pharmacologic approach for the prevention of restenosis after PCIs. Five small studies reported encouraging results for calcium channel blockers.
The use of tools designed to improve quality of care in the American College of Cardiology AMI Guidelines Applied in Practice Pilot Project resulted in improved adherence to evidence-based therapies for patients, but overall, tool use was modest.
The calcium sensitizer levosimendan improves the function of myocardium in experimental stunning.
Fondaparinux is a synthetic pentasaccharide that selectively inhibits activated clotting factor X. It has been demonstrated as effective in preventing thromboembolic complications in orthopedic surgery.
Intracellular degeneration, reduced cellular protein synthesis, and the replacement fibrosis contribute to structural disintegration of HHM.
Increased LVM and left ventricular (LV) volume and decreased LVEF predict clinical events. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors reduce LVM and LV volume and preserve LVEF in patients with hypertension and/or LV dysfunction, but have not been studied in patients with controlled BP and preserved LVEF.
Prior studies have shown that increased LVM is a risk factor for heart failure but not whether it is a risk factor for a low LVEF.
Several studies have shown that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins contribute to atherosclerotic complications in type II DM. However, it remains to be established which triglyceride-rich lipoproteins contribute to this risk.
Case-control studies have suggested an association between impaired intravascular catabolism of triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins and CAD. However, evidence is lacking with respect to the potential clinical relevance of this metabolic disorder in CAD patients.
Diabetes mellitus and CHF frequently coexist in the elderly. It is not clear whether fasting glucose levels in the setting of DM are a risk factor for incident CHF in the elderly.
Little information exists regarding outcome of patients with dyspnea.
The detection of residual IRA stenosis subtending significant viable myocardium and the identification of MVD may help to triage patients who may benefit from mechanical revascularization after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and thrombolysis.
Cardiac magnetic resonance accurately determines myocardial viability in patients with chronic ischemic heart disease but is not well validated for recent MI.
The histologic basis of late gadolinium CMR in patients with HCM is unknown.
Noninvasive MSCT coronary angiography is a promising coronary imaging technique.
The SDANN and ULF are prognostic HRV factors whose physiologic origins are obscure. Their discontinuous presence throughout the day suggested that they arise from changes in heart period due to activity.
It has been recognized that atrial fibrillation (AF) can originate from PVs. However, the electrophysiologic properties of the PV have not been well characterized.
Epidemiologic studies show that women have a lower rate of sudden cardiac death (SCD) than men, even among patients with CAD. Whether this is due to differing susceptibilities to ischemia or to arrhythmia is unknown.
Radiofrequency ablation of the CTI can produce local double potentials at the ablation line. The second component of unipolar electrograms represents the approaching wavefront in the right atrium opposite the pacing site. We hypothesized that the morphologic characteristics of the second component of double potentials would be useful in detecting complete CTI block.
The diagnostic role of endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) in patients with a clinical profile of ARVD is still debated.
Endothelial progenitor cells and CACs can be isolated from peripheral blood and have been shown to participate in vascular repair and angiogenesis. We hypothesized that exercise may acutely increase either circulating EPCs or CACs.
CD40L is a proinflammatory and prothrombotic ligand in the tumor necrosis factor family.
It is generally accepted that chronically dysfunctional, hibernating myocardium may remain nonetheless viable for a long time. It has been postulated that hibernating myocytes may survive, despite being subtended by a severe coronary artery stenosis, as they might be less susceptible to ischemic insults. However, whether hibernating myocardium is indeed more resistant to ischemia has never been investigated.
Although MB is a therapeutic candidate for chronic HF, little is known about the efficiency of this strategy when applied in nonischemic HF. Cardiotrophin-1 has potent hypertrophic and survival effects on cardiac myocytes. We hypothesized that transplantation of CT-1-expressing myoblasts could provide cardioprotective effects against ventricular remodeling in DS hypertensive rats.
Release of endogenous proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in response to endotoxin is responsible for the production of large amounts of nitric oxide (NO), which may exert detrimental effects on the myocardium in animal models, isolated hearts, and isolated cardiac myocytes. Recent studies have indicated that many of the deleterious effects of NO are mediated by peroxynitrite, a powerful oxidant generated from a fast diffusion-limited reaction of NO and superoxide anion.
About a decade ago, partial (240 degrees) fundoplication became popular for treating gastroesophageal reflux disease in cases where the patient's primary esophageal peristalsis was weak. A total (360 degrees) fundoplication was reserved for patients with normal peristalsis (tailored approach). The theory was that partial fundoplication was an adequate antireflux measure, and by posing less resistance for the weak esophageal peristalsis to overcome, it would give rise to less dysphagia. Short-term results seemed to confirm these ideas.
Limited middle segment pancreatectomy, or central pancreatectomy, has been described for sparing normal pancreatic tissue during resection of benign neoplasms of the pancreatic neck. Anatomic reconstruction after central pancreatectomy has been reported in other series with creation of a Roux-en-Y loop of jejunum for a mucosa-to-mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy.
Clinical care pathways reduce postoperative stay after major bowel operations. Concerns about unexpected early readmissions and delays in diagnosis of complications remain unanswered. The objectives of this study were determination of readmission rate and outcomes for patients undergoing intestinal operations.
Macroscopic hepatic lymph node involvement is usually a contraindication to hepatic resection. Only a few studies have investigated the impact of hepatic lymph node involvement on survival. The aim of this retrospective study was to assess microscopic hepatic lymph node involvement in resectable colorectal liver metastasis and outcomes in patients with such involvement.
The current study seeks to determine if the efficacy and safety of laparoscopic donor nephrectomy holds true when performed in patients older than 60 years of age.
Although patients with pectus carinatum (PC) often experience moderate to severe symptoms, there are sparse published data about the indications for correction, the newer techniques of surgical repair, and the results. This study reviews clinical experience with new, less extensive, open operative techniques for repair of PC.
Trauma centers are expected to develop injury prevention programs that address needs of the local population. A relatively simple, objective, and quantitative method is needed for prioritizing local injury prevention initiatives based on both injury frequency and severity.
Fibroadenomas comprise between 30% and 50% of all breast biopsies. Despite their benign nature, many women have their fibroadenomas surgically removed. We previously reported on a minimally invasive therapy using cryoablation to treat fibroadenomas. We now report on 12-month followup using this technique.
The purpose of this study of sentinel lymph node biopsies (SLN) was threefold: to compare the reliability of lymphazurin blue dye to radioactive technetium 99m sulfur colloid (TC); to evaluate the reliability of frozen section examinations of sentinel lymph nodes; and to determine how much SLN dissections prolonged operative time.
Laparoscopy-assisted surgery has proved useful in the treatment of early gastric cancer, but its use in advanced cancer may be hindered by limitations in lymphadenectomy.
Accidental placement of a large sheath or catheter in an artery during central venous cannulation, though rare, is a potentially devastating complication. The present study reviews our 14-year experience with this complication to determine appropriate role of surgical management.
Heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1) has been shown to play an important role in oxidative stress, and recent studies indicate that it is a graft survival protein in cardiac and liver transplant models. Our laboratory previously found HO-1 to be increased in human lung allografts with acute cellular rejection (ACR) and in active obliterative bronchiolitis. To better understand the role of HO-1 in ACR we studied the relationship between HO-1 expression and ACR in a rodent model of lung transplantation.
The c-Src tyrosine kinase is a determinant of malignant cellular behavior in a variety of human cancers. We sought to determine the effect of suppressing c-Src expression on pancreatic adenocarcinoma chemosensitivity to gemcitabine.
We have previously shown that metabolic arrest induced with ATP-regulated potassium channel openers (PCOs) can improve lung preservation by adding Aprikalim (a PCO, Rhone-Poulene Roher) to modified Euro-Collins solution for pulmonary artery flush. Because the membrane hyperpolarizing effects of a PCO potentially competes with the depolarizing effects of a hyperkalemic solution, this study evaluated the effects of the potassium gradient on PCO-mediated lung protection.
The American Medical Student Association, the Committee of Interns and Residents, and Public Citizen petitioned the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for national resident duty-hour limitations. Subsequently, federal legislation was introduced to limit resident duty hours. To preempt the federal government, the Accreditation of Graduate Medical Education implemented resident duty-hour guidelines.
Effective palliation rather than cure is often the most appropriate goal in the management of patients with advanced gastric cancer. The literature to date is limited by the imprecise use of the term palliative and subsequent variable designation of patients into evaluable groups.
Normal human epidermal keratinocytes usually proliferate in low-calcium and differentiate in high-calcium without a feeder layer, but they stop proliferating and differentiate at confluency even in low-calcium, serum-free medium.
Piebaldism is an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder characterized by congenital leukoderma, typically on the forehead, abdomen, and knees. The leukoderma is usually stable throughout life. KIT mutations have been demonstrated in about 75% of patients with piebaldism.
Thymus and activation regulated chemokine (TARC) is a CC chemokine that attracts CCR4+ T cells. We reported previously that TARC is an important chemokine that defines Th2 imbalance in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD).
Although abnormalities of various chemokines are detected in systemic sclerosis (SSc), there are few findings concerning Th1 or Th2 chemoattractants.
Increased serum IgE levels are occasionally found in patients with severe bullous pemphigoid (BP). CD23, a low affinity Fc receptor for IgE, is mainly expressed on mature B lymphocytes. Studies have suggested that serum levels of soluble CD23 (sCD23) correlate with serum IgE levels and disease severity in BP.
Depleted uranium (DU) use has been implicated in the poor health of many service personnel who have served in the Gulf and the Balkans. Although the health related risks are thought to be small the UK government has offered to set up a voluntary screening programme for service personnel. This study aimed to find out the characteristics and possible exposures to DU for those personnel who desire DU screening.
The effectiveness of influenza vaccination against hospitalization and death can only ethically be assessed in observational studies. A concern is that individuals who are vaccinated are healthier than individuals who are not vaccinated, potentially biasing estimates of effectiveness upward.
Chronically ill older adults constitute a population vulnerable for complications associated with influenza. Study of their immunity to influenza virus may help design better strategies to stimulate protective immune responses.
Respiratory infections are the leading cause of outpatient visits in the United States, but the etiology of many of these infections is unknown. Human metapneumovirus (hMPV) is a recently discovered virus that causes respiratory infections.
High rates of persistence of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection have been reported for adult women with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Although most women are first infected with HPV during adolescence, persistence of specific HPV types has not been carefully examined among HIV-infected adolescents. The objective of this study was to examine the rates of and risk factors for persistence of HPV types among HIV-infected and -uninfected adolescent girls.
Shifts in peak measles incidence to children &lt;12 months old and the associated high mortality support the study of an early 2-dose measles vaccine regimen.
Factors that determine the immunological response to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) are poorly defined.
The economics of universal antenatal human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) screening should be explored if mother-to-child transmission of HIV occurs, the health-service infrastructure for universal screening exists, and optimal risk-reducing treatments can be supplied.
Although there is good evidence that spinal manipulation is an effective treatment to improve pain and function for patients with low back pain (LBP), there is little evidence to support the mechanism by which manipulation works.
One of the diagnostic characteristics of the manipulable spinal lesion--a musculoskeletal disturbance that is claimed to be detected with manual palpation and corrected with manipulation--is said to be altered segmental tissue texture. Little evidence for the nature of abnormal paraspinal tissue texture exists, but indirect evidence from experimental studies supports the plausibility of the concept of protective muscle spasm, although investigations of increased paraspinal electromyography (EMG) associated with low back pain suggests complex changes in motor control rather than simple protective reflexes.
Although gastroschisis occurring in siblings is rare, a number of cases have been reported. A variety of inheritance patterns and embryologic explanations have previously been suggested. Young maternal age appears to be a consistent risk factor.
Pancreatitis is an uncommon but well-described entity in pregnancy and labour, with most cases attributable to biliary disease. Preeclampsia is not an established cause of pancreatitis.
The incidence of stroke is predicted to rise because of the rapidly ageing population. However, over the past two decades, findings of randomised trials have identified several interventions that are effective in prevention of stroke. Reliable data on time-trends in stroke incidence, major risk factors, and use of preventive treatments in an ageing population are required to ascertain whether implementation of preventive strategies can offset the predicted rise in stroke incidence. We aimed to obtain these data.
Latin America has a high rate of caesarean sections. We tested the hypothesis that a hospital policy of mandatory second opinion, based on the best existing scientific evidence, reduces the hospital caesarean section rate by 25%, without increasing maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality.
Laribacter hongkongensis has been recovered from several patients with gastroenteritis. However, the causative role of this organism in human gastroenteritis is still unproven, and sources of the bacterium are unknown. We undertook a multicentre case-control study to investigate the association of L hongkongensis with gastroenteritis.
The district hospital is considered essential for delivering basic, cost-effective health care to children in resource poor countries. We aimed to investigate the performance of these facilities in Kenya.
Depressed patients who respond to anti-depressant drugs but have persisting insomnia can be hypothesized as having one foot on the bipolar spectrum. In this hypothesis, the insomnia would respond to augmentation of the anti-depressants with anti-kindling agents (i.e., anti-convulsant drugs for the purposes of this paper) in the same way that many anti-convulsants are effective in bipolar disorders as mood-stabilizers from above (anti-manic agents) or below (anti-depressants).
Purpose of this study was to investigate the functional relationship between electroencephalographic (EEG) alpha power and cerebral glucose metabolism before and after pharmacological alpha suppression by lorazepam.
Autonomic dysfunction (AD) has been independently associated with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Autonomic abnormalities are generally considered to be secondary to OSA. Autonomic dysfunction may also contribute to OSA. If AD contributes to OSA, we postulated that abnormalities may be present in mild OSA where the confounding causal effects of hypoxemia and sleep disruption are reduced.
The c-met oncogene encodes the receptor for the hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF), which is known to have the effects of stimulation of cell motility, dissociation of epithelial sheets, invasion of cellular matrix, and induction of angiogenesis. Many studies in solid tumors have indicated a role for c-met and HGF/SF in the progression of the disease.
Successful outcome of complex surgical techniques depend on the surgical team's level of experience. However, unless benefit is demonstrated in the presence of cost savings, insurance companies are reluctant to approve care from highly experienced hospitals and surgical teams.
Quadrivalent capsular group A, C, Y and W-135 meningococcal conjugate (MC-4) vaccines are under development
Although surveillance for varicella in the United States has documented a reduction in cases since vaccine licensure in 1995, information is lacking on varicella-related mortality since vaccine introduction. This study identifies varicella-related mortality in California before and after vaccine introduction and assesses how high risk conditions and complications contributed to varicella deaths during this period.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) almost always leads to chronic airway infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Despite advances in antibiotic therapy, after chronic infection rapid deterioration in lung function occurs, increasing morbidity and mortality. Prevention of infection by vaccination is desirable, but earlier trials produced disappointing results. The promising short term immunogenicity and safety of a new P. aeruginosa vaccine prompted us to evaluate its long term efficacy. We conducted a 10-year retrospective analysis of outcomes in a group of vaccinated patients.
Although accurate models for predicting acute bacterial meningitis exist, most have narrow application because of the specific variables selected for them. In this study, we estimate the accuracy of a simple new model with potentially broader applicability.
Community-acquired respiratory viruses are an important cause of respiratory disease in pediatric patients undergoing hemopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, there are no studies examining the impact of more rapid and sensitive diagnosis by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in this population. We performed a prospective study to assess the impact of real time PCR diagnosis as well as protective isolation for community-acquired respiratory virus infections in pediatric patients undergoing hemopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Reliable estimates of hospitalization costs for severe respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection are necessary to perform economic analyses of preventive strategies of severe RSV disease. We aimed to develop a model that predicts anticipated mean RSV hospitalization costs of groups of young children at risk for hospitalization, but not yet hospitalized, based on readily available child characteristics.
The relationship between low birth weight and infant mortality among children born to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected mothers has not been thoroughly investigated.
Pediatric human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection follows a bimodal clinical course with rapid progression in 10-45% of children before the age of 2 years and slower progression in the remainder. A prospective observational study was undertaken to determine predictors of mortality in HIV-1-infected African infants during the first 2 years of life.
In developing countries, low birth weight (LBW) children are often not vaccinated with Calmette-Gurin bacillus (BCG) at birth. Recent studies have suggested that BCG may have a nonspecific beneficial effect on infant mortality. We evaluated the consequences of not vaccinating LBW children at birth in Guinea-Bissau.
Women participate in colorectal cancer (CRC) screening less often than men. Our study objective was to understand factors related to women's use of CRC screening. We examined the personal health, medical care, and psychosocial responses to CRC and screening use of a community-based sample of women.
Older individuals have higher rates of most types of cancer. Community-based cancer screening programs offer one avenue for addressing the need to prevent or detect cancers in early stages in this population. Identifying characteristics of successful interventions can assist researchers in the development of future studies.
Since it is widely accepted that the earlier cancer is detected, the better the chances of treatment and survival, people should be encouraged to create positive intentions toward early detection of several types of cancer, for instance, skin cancer, breast cancer, and colon cancer. This can be done by being alert to the warning signs of cancer and seeking help once a cancer symptom is detected.
Early detection of skin cancer is associated with improved prognosis. The American Cancer Society's current skin cancer screening (SCS) recommendation states that adults over the age of 40 should receive an annual skin examination conducted by a health professional. However, little is known about the psychosocial factors related to participation in annual SCS, which remains relatively low among the general public.
Hispanic women in the United States have a higher incidence of invasive cervical cancer than non-Hispanic whites. A key factor related to the relatively high incidence is the underutilization of cancer-screening services. Several previous investigations have reported that Hispanic women are less likely to comply with screening recommendations for Pap testing; some have identified factors that are associated with non-compliance with screening recommendations.
In 2000, the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) collected information about prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test use in a representative sample of U.S. men.
The introduction of human papillomavirus (HPV) testing into cervical screening has the potential to alter public perceptions of cervical cancer by making explicit the role of a sexually transmitted virus in its etiology. HPV knowledge has been found to be poor, although there is evidence of public awareness of a link between sexual activity and cervical cancer risk. We explored beliefs about the risk factors for cervical cancer in a large population sample.
Thorough skin self-examination (TSSE) has substantial potential to reduce melanoma mortality by early detection.
This paper describes the implementation of the Healthy Directions-Health Centers intervention and examines the characteristics of participants associated with completion of intervention activities. Healthy Directions-Health Centers was designed to address social contextual factors relevant to cancer prevention interventions for working class, multi-ethnic populations.
This study explored factors that predict higher trust in primary care providers, and examined the role of patient trust on the use of preventive services for low-income African-American women.
Health education and screening are two components of preventive health services in Japan since 1983. This study investigated their relationships with all-cause mortality as they are studied insufficiently in Hokkaido, Japan.
Cold air stimulates upper airway cold receptors causing a reflex depressive effect on respiratory activity. Menthol, in low concentrations can also stimulate these same cold receptors causing a depressive effect on respiratory activity. Menthol cigarettes when smoked, deliver enough menthol to stimulate cold receptors resulting in the smoker experiencing a "cool sensation." The "cool sensation" experienced by the menthol smoker can result in a reflex-depressive effect on respiratory activity.
Even with optimal treatment, injuries from pumpkin carving accidents may leave people with compromised hand function. Pumpkin carving tools may reduce the incidence and/or magnitude of these injuries. However, evidence that they are safer is required before these knives can be recommended.
To examine preferences concerning social and environmental aspects of exercise in the elderly population.
Prevalence of hypertension is greater in older adults, and increased intake of fruits, vegetables, and dairy-good sources of potassium, calcium, and magnesium-can reduce blood pressure. This study examined the hypertension-related dietary patterns of older adults.
Obesity is epidemic in the US and other industrialized countries and contributes significantly to population morbidity and mortality. Primary care physicians see a substantial portion of the obese population, yet rarely counsel patients to lose weight.
Hepatitis B continues to be a substantial problem in the United States despite the existence of a safe and effective vaccine. Vaccination programs for inmates could reach many high-risk individuals but little is known about U.S. inmates' willingness to accept hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccination while incarcerated. The goal of this study was to assess inmates' knowledge about hepatitis B and their willingness to accept hepatitis B vaccination while incarcerated.
It is well documented that smokers tend to be leaner than nonsmokers. It is also clearly established that smoking is detrimental to health. The question that immediately comes to mind, therefore, is whether the possible weight-controlling aspects of the smoking habit offset the harm induced by smoking.
Diets rich in vegetables and fruits prevent development of atherosclerosis.
Recommended levels of youth physical activity (PA) should emerge from data related to important health outcomes. The purpose of the present study was to establish criterion-referenced standards for PA (using pedometer-assessed steps/day) related to healthy body composition.
Previous research has shown significant associations between depression and substance use and eating disordered behaviors. However, no research to date has described associations between depressive symptoms and nutritional intake or physical activity among adolescents in a nonclinical, population-based sample.
Aerobic exercise training has been shown to produce beneficial changes in glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in obese individuals if performed at high enough intensities and/or durations. We examined the effects of a moderate intensity, short-term exercise training protocol on glucose tolerance in obese males with glucose intolerance.
High-dose therapy with autologous stem cell support has been carried out in our hospital since 1996. We have recently collected survival data on patients who have undergone this procedure.
Spontaneous intracranial hypotension is probably an under-reported cause of headache and other neurological symptoms.
There is some evidence linking air pollution to cardiovascular morbidity. Our aim was to examine whether there is a correlation between air pollution and cardiovascular morbidity in the city of Trondheim, Norway.
Increasing numbers of patients undergoing angiographic procedures result in an increase in the total number of complications. False aneurysm may develop in 1-5% after femoral artery puncture. Until recently, ultrasound-guided compression was the preferred method of treatment, in a few cases surgery. A newer method with ultrasound-guided injection of thrombin has been shown to be effective.
Achieving reperfusion as soon as possible is essential in order to reduce myocardial infarction size and thus improve prognosis. An increasing number of patients with myocardial infarction are treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Technetium 99m-tetrofosmin myocardial perfusion tomography (SPECT) is a valid test for assessing myocardium at risk and final infarct size expressed by a hypoperfusion index (HPI) of the left ventricular mass.
Each year about 630 infants are born with very low birth weight (below 1500 g) in Norway. In spite of an increased survival rate over the past 30 years, many challenges remain in the treatment of premature infants; their nutritional need is an important aspect.
We present a survey of the intake of fruit and vegetables among Norwegian children and adolescents and examine the association between fruit and vegetable intake and intake of macronutrients and micronutrients.
We summarise evidence concerning the health effects of whole grain intake, as well as implications for Norway. All forms of whole grain products contain both the bran and the germ, which are rich in nutrients, in addition to the starch-rich endosperm. However, refined grain consists only of the endosperm, which contains far fewer nutrients.
Colonoscopy is regarded as the gold standard for diagnosis of colorectal disease, and increasingly considered a primary screening approach for colorectal cancer. The quality of the procedure varies between centres and endoscopists. The aim of the present study was to describe a quality control programme for colonoscopy performance in a secondary care centre.
New guidelines adopted in Norway for antihypertensive medication implies prescription of a thiazide diuretic as the drug of first choice. The background for the change in the rules for prescription drugs paid for by the National Insurance system with a capped co-payment is a resolution of the Norwegian parliament as part of a budget compromise for 2004. The resolution was supported by results from the ALLHAT study (antihypertensive and lipid-lowering treatment to prevent heart attack trial).
Intervention against cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension, dyslipidaemia and smoking is necessary to reduce the increased mortality associated with diabetes mellitus.
Our aim was to combine several regional studies in order to estimate the prevalence of diabetes in Norway.
More or less outdated reference intervals are still in common use with many clinical biochemical components. In order to update them, a Nordic cooperative project (the Nordic reference interval project, NORIP) was organised.
Cardiovascular disease mortality in Norway during the last 50 years has been analysed and related to changes in dietary habits and serum cholesterol in the population.
In the only department of neurology for the two northernmost counties of Norway, activities are organised to minimize waiting time for examination. In order to improve provision of services, we asked general practitioners (GPs) for advice in a questionnaire survey.
The mechanisms underlying liver graft dysfunction are not completely defined, although much of the injury derives from oxidative stress in organ reperfusion. The antioxidant glutathione in its reduced form (GSH) is an important agent to detoxify oxygen species after reperfusion. However, this effect might be limited by low concentrations at the end of cold storage. The objective of this study was to evaluate GSH and glutathione oxidized (GSSG) hepatic levels pre- and postreperfusion and correlate with hepatocellular injury and liver function in the 5 subsequent days after transplantation.
Quality of life is affected during any illness, especially chronic diseases, such as renal failure.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) (mean pulmonary arterial pressure [mPAP] &gt; 25 mm Hg) is frequently observed during the postoperative period after liver transplantation (LT).
Patients with heart failure frequently develop renal failure, which increases the mortality rate among patients undergoing cardiac transplantation.
Clinical islet transplantation is increasingly regulated, with isolation standards defined under current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs). cGMP requires validation of equipment cleaning and sterilization. The automated process for islet isolation requires rapid thermal exchange during processing, manipulating a metal coil containing cellular product into and out of chilled/heated waterbaths. We recognize challenges of validating cleaning and sterilization of this coil and propose replacement with a disposable blood warming system. Our specific aims were to assess the system's ability to accommodate flow rates utilized during various phases of pancreatic digestion and to assess its efficiency of heat exchange and temperature control.
Appropriate donor selection is one of the keys for successful human islet isolation. Previous studies identified several critical donor factors; however, significant improvements in current human islet isolation protocols make reevaluation of donor factors necessary.
Research-grade pancreata preserved by the two-layer method (TLM) compared to organs stored with University of Wisconsin (UW) solution prior to islet isolation result in significantly better islet yields. However, it is unknown whether the TLM improves islet yields from pancreata that meet the criteria for the selection of clinical-grade organs.
The use of desmopressin and vasopressors in cadaveric organ donors is considered a risk factor for graft dysfunction following pancreas transplantation by influencing the microcirculation. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of these substances on early graft function.
Shortage of suitable donors and current graft allocation priorities reduce the number of cadaveric kidneys available to diabetic recipients. The concurrent excess of solitary cadaveric pancreata and the excellent results of living kidney transplantation make simultaneous cadaveric pancreas-living kidney transplantation (SPLKTx) an attractive alternative to simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation (SPKTx).
Although tacrolimus (Prograf) is the calcineurin inhibitor usually employed in simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation (SPKTx), no prospective randomized studies have compared its efficacy to cyclosporine (Neoral), when either drug is used in combination with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and the pancreas is drained into the portal vein.
Steroid avoidance is possible in simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation with the use of newer immunosuppressive agents and induction therapy. We undertook a retrospective consecutive case review of patients treated at a university tertiary referral center.
We sought to determine whether pancreas transplantation reduced the incidence of peripheral vascular complications in diabetics with renal insufficiency.
Most solitary pancreas transplants (SPTx) fail due to unrecognized rejection episodes. Consequently, SPTx are monitored by drainage into the bladder or by surveillance biopsies.
The purpose of this study was to describe and compare the renal histopathology and clinical course of simultaneous kidney-pancreas transplant (SKP) recipients with kidney transplant (KT) recipients with polyomavirus nephropathy (PVN).
With the introduction of more potent immunosuppressive agents, rejection rates have decreased markedly in simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant (SPK) recipients. However, with more intense immunosuppression, opportunistic infections such as polyoma virus have been more frequent. The purpose of this article is to outline the clinical course of SPK patients who developed documented polyoma infection in the transplanted kidney.
The aim of this study was to assess the selection of candidates among 38 dialyzed diabetic patients referred between January 1, 1998 and December 31 2002 for kidney followed by islet transplantation (IAK). The main criteria of eligibility for possible IAK were as follows: (1) plasma C-peptide negative; (2) need for a kidney graft; (3) kidney plus whole pancreas transplantation not desired by the patient; and (4) acceptable results of postkidney graft preislet transplantation evaluation.
Complications associated with intraportal islet infusion have been reported. In this study, we analyzed the relationship between occurrence of complications and islet preparation characteristics/infusion technique.
Owing to advances in both immunosuppressive protocols and pancreatic islet isolation techniques, insulin independence has recently been achieved in type 1 insulin-dependent diabetics (IDDM) via pancreatic islet transplantation (PIT). Although the dissemination of immunosuppressive protocols is relatively easy, transferring the knowledge and expertise required to isolate a large number of quality human islets for transplantation is a far greater challenge. Therefore, in an attempt to centralize the critical islet processing needed for islet transplantation and to avoid the development of another islet processing center, we have established a collaborative islet transplant program between two geographically distant transplant centers.
The current technique of human pancreas digestion for islet isolation relies on selective distribution of collagenase delivered via the pancreatic duct to produce digestion and removal of peri-acinar fibrous tissue. However, the collagenase has relatively little effect on the interlobular fibrous tissue, which must therefore be broken down by mechanical means within the digestion chamber so as to release the contained acini and islets. The current way of achieving this in the Ricordi chamber is to place five or six stainless steel balls within the chamber and shake vigorously. The shaking presumably breaks down the interlobular fibrous tissue by a combination of shear force induced by the movement of tissue through the shaking process, assisted by numerous blows from the steel balls. Intuitively, one would expect some islets would be destroyed rather than released by such a battering.
Advances in the rate of success of human islet isolation are due in part to the availability of new purified enzyme blends. In this study we evaluated a new enzyme preparation composed of a highly purified collagenase that can be reproducibly blended with predetermined amounts of separately packaged neutral protease.
Although it has been established that formation and functional differentiation of the pancreas from embryonic endoderm is associated with activation/inactivation of many genes controlled by specific sets of transcription factors, the role and activation sequence of individual transcription factors has not yet been fully elucidated. This study sought to differentiate a murine teratocarcinoma cell line, F9, to endodermal-like cells and, subsequently; to investigate the effects of regulated expression of transcription factors in pancreas development.
Cell replacement therapies have been proposed as possible alternatives to the current treatments for controlling blood glucose in insulin-dependent diabetes. Beta cells, however, often lose their glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) when maintained for prolonged periods in culture. For beta cell lines to be considered as a suitable source of transplantable tissue, it is essential that their GSIS is maintained. This study aimed to investigate cellular events involved in this loss of GSIS, to enable future optimization and enhancement of this response.
One of the main obstacles to clinical application of islet xenotransplantation is the injurious inflammatory reaction elicited by porcine islets when they are exposed to fresh human blood in vitro and in vivo. This instant blood-mediated inflammatory reaction (IBMIR) causes rapid binding of platelets to the islet surface, activation of the coagulation and complement systems, and leukocyte infiltration of the islets. As a consequence of IBMIR, morphological destruction of porcine islets occurs within the first few hours after transplantation.
One of the major barriers affecting the viability of encapsulated islets is pericapsular fibrotic infiltration (PFI). This study aimed to design strategies to reduce PFI around intraportally injected alginate microbeads.
The aim of the study was to analyze the possibility of xenogeneic islet retransplantation using costimulatory blockade.
Enhanced control of both transport properties and surface physiochemical characteristics will be important steps in the development of an effective immunoisolation barrier critical to the success of pancreatic islet cell transplantation. We hypothesize that the cell membrane establishes an important paradigm for the design of a biomimetic immunoisolation barrier with improved performance characteristics because of its capacity to control interfacial mass transport, as well as its ability to act as a template for more complex structures with other immunoregulatory macromolecules.
The Wistar Hannover rat has been considered as an alternative animal model to the Sprague-Dawley rat in the safety evaluation of candidate pharmaceuticals for potential reproductive and developmental toxicity. Hematology and clinical chemistry results may provide useful evidence of maternal toxicity in the absence of fetal effects.
Hematologic data are used routinely in the health care of humans and domestic mammals. Similar data for fish are largely fragmentary or have not been collected.
Clinical pathologists use descriptive terms or modifiers to express the probability or likelihood of a cytologic diagnosis. Words are imprecise in meaning, however, and may be used and interpreted differently by pathologists and clinicians.
Because of the complexity, subjectivity, time, and technical skill required for determination of manual bone marrow differential cell counts, an alternative method is needed. Several flow cytometric methods have been described, but all have limitations.
Osteogenic sarcomas are rare in rabbits, but cases involving the mandible, ribs, frontal bones, and tibia have been reported.
Relief of pain for patients requires that palliative care practitioners have knowledge and skill in both pain assessment and the use of pharmacologic and complementary therapies.
After traumatic brain injury (TBI), many individuals have support needs, but the variety, frequency and intensity of such needs vary widely. Currently available scales do not assess all facets of required supports and the eight-category Care and Needs Scale (CANS) was developed in order to capture the range of support needs. The aim of the present study was to examine the sensitivity and validity of the CANS.
An early decrease in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) after total paracentesis has been observed in ascitic patients who developed paracentesis-induced circulatory dysfunction.
In 1989, Graff-Radford and Godersky noted that 3 of 30 patients diagnosed with NPH had large heads. They hypothesized that the cause of NPH in their patients was arrested congenital hydrocephalus becoming symptomatic later in life.
To correct trapezium dysplasia we propose a new surgical technique. The operation consists of a double osteotomy of the trapezium and of the first metacarpal base, thereby harvesting the trapezo-metacarpal joint en-bloc. Vascularization is via the radial artery pedicle divided at the first web level. The articular block is then rotated 180 degrees on the longitudinal axis of the thumb.
Controversy persists concerning the preferred treatment for intercondylar distal humerus fractures. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the clinical results after the surgical treatment of 40 intercondylar distal humerus fractures with an average follow-up of 3.9 years.
The occurrence of cubital tunnel syndrome during heterotopic ossification is infrequent. Entrapment of the nerve requires early decompression whereas definitive elbow release is often delayed to reduce the risk of recurrence of periarticular ossification. The pathophysiology and treatment of these two conditions are discussed.
Sleep disturbance is common in intensive care patients. Aside from its unpleasantness, there is a correlation with intensive care unit (ICU) syndrome/delirium. Reasons for sleep deprivation appear to be multifactorial, including the underlying illness, an acute superimposed disturbance, medications, and the ICU environment itself. There are reasons to believe that alterations of the 'biological clock' might contribute. Melatonin secretion is one reflection of this internal sleep/wake mechanism. Melatonin levels are normally high during the night and low during daytime, being suppressed by bright light.
Insertion of central venous catheters (CVCs) is a procedure associated with a varying risk of complications, depending on the setting and the skill of the clinician who undertakes the procedure. The aim of this study was to monitor the complication rate of CVC insertion and evaluate the value of routine chest X-ray control.
Reliable assessment of nursing workload is necessary for the quantitative approach to staffing of intensive care units. The Nursing Care Recording System (NCR11) scores both the nursing contribution to patient care and those related to medical procedures. The purpose of the present work was to compare NCR11 scoring with the Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System (TISS) and Nine Equivalents of Nurse Manpower use Score (NEMS) and to examine the interrater reliability of NCR11 scoring.
The effect of non-pulsatile, normothermic cardiopulmonary-bypass (CPB) on the splanchnic blood-flow and oxygen-transport, the hepatic function and the gastrointestinal barrier were observed in a prospective observational study in 31 adults undergoing cardiac valve replacement surgery.
The aim of our trial was to evaluate the ability of microalbuminuria as an indicator of outcome and to investigate its relationship with the postoperative respiratory dysfunction in the initial postoperative period in a high-risk patient group.
Adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma is a life-threatening procedure. Few echocardiographic assessments have been reported in patients undergoing adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma.
Isoflurane applied before myocardial ischemia has a beneficial preconditioning effect which involves generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS); ROS, however, have been implicated in critical cytosolic calcium ([Ca2+]i) overload during ischemia. We therefore investigated isoflurane's effects on intracellular Ca2+ handling in ischemic ventricular myocytes and the association with ROS.
Airway pressure release ventilation (APRV) is a ventilatory mode, which allows unsupported spontaneous breathing at any phase of the ventilatory cycle. Airway pressure release ventilation as compared with pressure support (PS), another partial ventilatory mode, has been shown to improve gas exchange and cardiac output. We hypothesized whether the use of APRV with maintained unsupported spontaneous breathing as an initial mode of ventilatory support promotes faster recovery from respiratory failure in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) than PS combined with synchronized intermittent ventilation (SIMV-group).
We tested the hypothesis that patient-controlled epidural analgesia for labor (PCEA) provides better analgesia and satisfaction than the intermittent bolus technique (bolus) without affecting the mode of delivery.
Many studies have been carried out on the effects of anaesthetic drugs and methods on the immune response, but pain and its relief also affect the immune response. We measured systemic immune responses in the blood circulation and local responses in the surgical wound when non-steroidal anti-inflammatory analgesics (NSAIDs), opioids or epidural blockade was used in the peri-operative treatment of pain.
Surgical stress and general anaesthesia suppress immune functions, including natural killer cell (NK) activity. This suppression could be attributed, at least in part, to the effect of opiates.
There are conflicting results concerning the pre-emptive effect of ketamine on central sensitization following surgery. The aim of this prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was to assess the effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist ketamine on postoperative morphine consumption and pain score after remifentanil-based anaesthesia in adult patients scheduled for tonsillectomy.
To give prophylactics or timely treatment for post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is the question. We compared the intensity and number of disturbing post-operative symptoms (i.e. pain, PONV, headache, fatigue, etc.) after prophylactic antiemetic treatment in a group of patients with &gt;30% risk for post-operative vomiting.
A hypoperfusion-reperfusion human model is observed during and soon after laparoscopic surgery. The aim of the study was to research the preventive effects of etomidate, thiopental, and propofol in induction on hypoperfusion- reperfusion phenomenon during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Modern delicate microcatheters allow intranidal embolization of cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVM). The aim of the current analysis was to assess effects of preoperative intranidal deployment of embolic material on surgical time and blood loss in cerebral arteriovenous malformations of 3-6 cm in diameter.
In clinical practice, the occurrence of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) often coincides with a particular season. Our objective was to examine seasonal variations in hospital admissions due to aneurysmal SAH.
The generally accepted indications for carotid endarterectomy are the clinical picture and degree of per cent stenosis of the carotid artery. Despite the fact that stenosis measurement is defined, the methods vary considerably. The correlation of particular methods, especially angiography and duplex sonography, has been repeatedly demonstrated. However, the correlation between any technique and true anatomical stenosis, as evaluated on the surgical specimen, has been only anecdotally reported.
Lhermitte-Duclos Disease (LDD) is an infrequent cerebellar disorder characterized by focal or diffuse enlargement of cerebellar folia presenting as a slowly growing mass in the posterior fossa. Over the past decade its association with Cowden disease (CD) has been recognized with increasing frequency. This latter disease is a genetic condition leading to the presence of multiple hamartomas and neoplasias which affect mainly the skin, thyroid, breast and genito-urinary and gastro-intestinal tracts. It has even been hypothesized that LDD and CD constitute a single entity. This work is aimed to analyse to what extent this association was present in patients treated for LDD at our institution.
Decompressive craniectomy in patients suffering from severe ischemic stroke in the middle cerebral artery territory (MCA) decreases mortality to near 30%. Additionally functional outcome in patients after early craniectomy seems to be better than in patients without surgery. The aim of this study was to investigate the quality of life of patients who were treated with a decompressive craniectomy for severe ischemic stroke.
Important landmarks in the evolution of advanced neurosurgical techniques during the past decades include microneurosurgery, neuro-endoscopy and its minimally invasive nature, as well as neuronavigation and advanced intra-operative imaging. With conventional neuroendoscopic techniques, e.g. free-hand endoscopy or the use of mechanical or pneumatic holding devices, a definitive and controlled movement of the endoscope within the brain does depend on the experience and manual skill of the individual neurosurgeon. Therefore, the development of robotic systems to assist surgeons in performing complex neurosurgical procedures is a growing field of interest.
Treatment of intracranial aneurysms is evolving with the development of novel therapies. It is important to have an animal model which simulates human aneurysms. We describe a new modified technique to the elastase aneurysm model which creates aneurysms that histologically and hemodynamically resemble human aneurysms.
Glioblastoma multiforme (WHO Grade IV, GBM) is the most malignant brain tumour with a mean survival time of less than one year. Betulinic acid, ceramide and TRAIL (TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand) represent novel therapeutic agents for potential use in GBM.
Negative results on simplified compression ultrasonography cannot rule out symptomatic deep venous thrombosis (DVT) without further testing, such as repeated ultrasonography several days later. Repeated testing is costly and inconvenient, and patients are sometimes less likely to return for follow-up tests.
Visceral adiposity is generally considered to play a key role in the metabolic syndrome.
Drug hypersensitivity reactions are common and can be life-threatening. Confirmation of the diagnosis should be rigorous and based on clinical history and a physical examination, possibly followed by skin tests and drug provocation tests.
Although regular physical activity is recommended for prevention of cardiovascular diseases, no data are available on its antiatherosclerotic effects in the general population.
Depression frequently occurs in combination with diabetes mellitus, adversely affecting the course of illness.
Suicide is a leading cause of death, and rates are especially high among the elderly. Medical illnesses may predispose to suicide, but few controlled studies have examined the association between specific diseases and suicide. We explored the relationship between treatment for several illnesses and the risk of suicide in elderly patients using a population-based approach.
Rates of guideline-based care for elderly patients with heart failure vary by state, and overall are not optimal. Identifying factors associated with the lack of uniformly high-quality health care might aid efforts to improve care. We therefore sought to determine the extent to which provider and hospital characteristics contribute to small-area geographic variation in heart failure care after controlling for patient factors.
Methemoglobinemia (MHb) is characterized by abnormal levels of oxidized hemoglobin that cannot bind and transport oxygen. When induced by benzocaine anesthetic spray and other chemicals, it can result in cyanosis and life-threatening complications.
Depressive disorders are one of the most common reasons for visits to primary care physicians. This study identifies factors related to poor response to depression treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in primary care settings by (1) examining clinical response taking into account treatment, (2) comparing baseline characteristics and outcomes between patients classified by response, and (3) examining characteristics predicting poor response.
Timely administration of the first dose, dosage adjustment to renal function, switch from intravenous to oral administration, and streamlining are important aspects of rational antibiotic prescription. The goals of this study were to investigate all of these variables, compare them with predefined quality standards, and implement improvement with specific interventions.
High mortality among drug users has been widely recognized. This study investigates, in a large family practice of 10 000 patients in Edinburgh, Scotland, whether there has been a change in causes of mortality over time. Patients known to have ever injected drugs were recruited into a cohort study from 1980 until 2001.
Recognition and treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults in psychiatry and primary care have faced many obstacles.
The importance of screening for early-stage prostate cancer has been debated in the literature. However, there are well-established prognostic factors (Gleason score [GS], pretreatment prostate-specific antigen [PSA], and percent positive biopsy findings [%+Bx]) that predict biologically aggressive disease. These factors, together with a patient's age and general state of health, will permit physicians to project the effect of a prostate tumor over the patient's expected lifetime. This study was performed to determine the proportion of clinically significant prostate cancers diagnosed in a screened population.
Little information exists on the economic impact of chronic prostatitis. The objective of this study was to determine the direct and indirect costs associated with chronic prostatitis.
Echinacea purpurea stimulates the immune response and is promoted to reduce symptom severity and the duration of upper respiratory tract infections. We sought to determine the efficacy of a standardized preparation of E purpurea in reducing symptom severity and duration of the common cold.
The prevalence of glaucoma is higher in African American individuals than in white individuals.
Blunt carotid artery injury (BCI) remains a rare but potentially lethal condition. Recent studies recommend that aggressive screening based on broad criteria (hyperextension-hyperflexion mechanism of injury, basilar skull fracture, cervical spine injury, midface fracture, mandibular fracture, diffuse axonal brain injury, and neck seat-belt sign) increases the rate of diagnosis of BCI by 9-fold. If this recommendation becomes a standard of care, it will require a major consumption of resources and may give rise to liability claims. The benefits of aggressive screening are unclear because the natural history of asymptomatic BCI is unknown and the existing treatments are controversial.
Septic shock and its effects are a major cause of mortality in the intensive care environment. The exact effect and mechanism of endotoxin has yet to be fully described. With a better understanding of this process, better clinical tools could be developed to treat these patients.
Heroin is a synthetic opioid with an extensive illicit market leading to large numbers of people becoming addicted. Heroin users often present to community treatment services requesting detoxification and in the UK various agents are used to control symptoms of withdrawal. Dissatisfaction with methadone detoxification 8 has lead to the use of clonidine, lofexidine, buprenorphine and dihydrocodeine; however, there remains limited evaluative research. In Leeds, a city of 700,000 people in the North of England, dihydrocodeine is the detoxification agent of choice. Sublingual buprenorphine, however, is being introduced. The comparative value of these two drugs for helping people successfully and comfortably withdraw from heroin has never been compared in a randomised trial. Additionally, there is a paucity of research evaluating interventions among drug users in the primary care setting. This study seeks to address this by randomising drug users presenting in primary care to receive either dihydrocodeine or buprenorphine.
Most medical schools in Japan have incorporated mandatory courses on medical ethics. To this date, however, there is no established means of evaluating medical ethics education in Japan. This study looks 1) To develop a brief, objective method of evaluation for moral sensitivity and reasoning; 2) To conduct a test battery for the PIT and the DIT on medical students who are either currently in school or who have recently graduated (residents); 3) To investigate changes in moral sensitivity and reasoning between school years among medical students and residents.
The plant respiratory chain contains several energy-dissipating enzymes, these being type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases and the alternative oxidase, not present in mammals. The physiological functions of type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases are largely unclear and little is known about their responses to stress. In this investigation, potato plants (Solanum tuberosum L., cv. Desiree) were sprayed with antimycin A, an inhibitor of the cytochrome pathway. Enzyme capacities of NAD(P)H dehydrogenases (EC 1.6.5.3) and the alternative oxidase were then analysed in isolated leaf mitochondria.
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) measurement can detect and assess heart failure. However, compared with traditional clinical parameters, its value for predicting the in-hospital mortality of patients with suspected heart disease has not been reported.
Insulin resistance appears to be an important risk factor for coronary artery disease.
Previous validation studies of congestive heart failure (CHF) signs and symptoms were performed in acute settings. Few data have supported the validity of CHF clinical findings during the chronic stages of the disease. This study was designed to evaluate the reliability and prognostic value of traditional signs and symptoms in stable CHF outpatients.
Although exercise-induced electrocardiographic ST segment changes are used to detect coronary artery disease (CAD), their diagnostic value is markedly decreased in patients with left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy. There have been no reports concerning postexercise systolic blood pressure (SBP) response in patients with ultrasound echocardiographic (UCG) LV hypertrophy and CAD.
This study examined the rates of coronary angiography (CA), percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) in British Columbia (BC) between 1995 and 2001.
Tumor endothelium represents a valuable target for cancer therapy. The vasculature plays a critical role in the survival and continued growth of solid tumor masses; in addition, the inherent differences between tumor blood vessels and blood vessels associated with normal tissue make the tumor vasculature a unique target on which to base the design of novel therapeutics, which may allow highly selective treatment of malignant disease. Therapeutic strategies that target and disrupt the already formed vessel networks of growing tumors are actively being pursued. The goal of these approaches is to induce a rapid and catastrophic shutdown of the vascular function of the tumor so that blood flow is arrested and tumor cell death due to the resulting oxygen and nutrient deprivation and buildup of waste products occurs.
There is no existing instrument that is suitable for measuring the social impact of breast carcinoma (BC) and its treatment among women of Southern Chinese descent. In the current study, the authors assessed the validity of the Chinese Social Adjustment Scale, which was designed to address the need for such an instrument.
African-American (AA) women are more likely to be diagnosed with an advanced stage of breast carcinoma than are white women. After adjustment for disease stage, many studies indicate that tumors in AA women are more likely than tumors in white women are to exhibit a high level of cell proliferation and features of poor prognosis. The purpose of the current study was to compare tumor characteristics and cell cycle alterations in AA women and white women that might affect the aggressiveness of breast carcinoma.
It was found previously that alphaB-crystallin, a small heat-shock protein, was overexpressed in a metastatic variant of the GI101A human breast carcinoma cell line. The objective of the current study was to determine whether the expression of alphaB-crystallin in primary breast carcinomas was associated with lymph node metastasis and survival.
The galactose oxidase-Schiff reaction (GOS) yields positive findings in a number of malignant solid tumors. The goals of the current study were to develop a novel technique for quantifying GOS reactivity in nipple aspirate fluid (NAF) samples from women with invasive breast carcinoma and to assess the clinical utility of the technique in this setting.
The feasibility and accuracy of sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) for patients with breast carcinoma have been investigated primarily for the situation in which the radiocolloid imaging agent is injected peritumorally. No such study has involved periareolar injection of radiocolloid, although the usefulness of this injection technique has been demonstrated in patients with early-stage breast carcinoma who have not been treated with NAC. The objective of the current study was to determine the feasibility and accuracy of SLN biopsy using periareolar injection of radiocolloid for patients with breast carcinoma who were treated with NAC.
Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) of the breast is considered a marker for an increased risk of carcinoma in both breasts. However, the frequent association of LCIS with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) suggests a precursor-product relation. The possible genomic relation between synchronous LCIS and ILC was analyzed using the technique of array-based comparative genomic hybridization (CGH).
Clinicopathologic staging of prostate adenocarcinoma provides a method for assessing the extent of tumor and predicting patient prognosis. The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) TNM staging system has undergone recent revisions for T2 prostate tumors. T2 tumors currently are subclassified as T2a (less than one-half of one lobe involvement), T2b (greater than one-half of one lobe involvement), and T2c (bilateral involvement). Despite general acceptance of the system, controversy and uncertainty still exist with regard to the application of the TNM staging system, particularly the use of the T2 staging subclassification.
A proportion of patients diagnosed with pathologic T1 (pT1) clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CC-RCC) will experience disease progression and death after surgery, whereas the majority remain disease free. The authors conducted a case-cohort investigation to examine the association of insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) expression and disease-specific survival in patients who underwent surgery for pT1 CC-RCC.
The objective of the current study was to assess the efficacy of combination therapy with fludarabine and mitoxantrone in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
Imatinib mesylate administration has become standard treatment for patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Although the safety profile of imatinib is favorable, Grade &gt; or = 3 neutropenia (according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria) occurs in 35-45% of patients with CML in chronic phase who receive standard-dose imatinib. Myelosuppression results in treatment interruptions, which may compromise responses to imatinib. The authors investigated the ability of granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (filgrastim) to reverse imatinib-associated neutropenia, thereby allowing for more continuous imatinib administration.
Silencing of tumor suppressor genes (TSG) by aberrant methylation (referred to as methylation) contributes to the pathogenesis of various human malignancies. However, little is known about the methylation of known and putative TSGs in monoclonal gammopathies. Thus, the authors investigated the methylation frequencies of 10 genes in patients with monoclonal gammopathies.
High-dose chemotherapy (HDC) with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) as part of the initial treatment regimen improves progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients with multiple myeloma. The optimal preparative regimen for patients with multiple myeloma has yet to be defined. In the current study, the authors compared the outcomes associated with high-dose melphalan (HDM) and a more intensive regimen of thiotepa, busulfan, and cyclophosphamide (TBC) in patients with multiple myeloma.
The authors previously reported the efficacy of a dose of 4 mg of zoledronic acid in reducing skeletal complications in patients with bone metastases secondary to lung carcinoma and other solid tumors (except carcinomas of the breast and prostate). In the current study, they update these results and report the long-term efficacy and safety of 21 months of treatment with zoledronic acid in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
The objectives of this study were to register the brain locations in a consecutive series of low-grade gliomas (LGGs) and compare these localizations with the locations of de novo glioblastomas (GBMs) that were collected during the same period in an effort to analyze whether LGGs are situated in preferential areas and to review the pathophysiologic hypothesis of such a phenomenon.
The current study evaluated factors influencing survival in patients diagnosed with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL), with a focus on the effects of therapeutic radiotherapy (RT) and highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
Vincristine (VCR) is widely used to treat patients with malignant disease; among the patients treated with VCR are children with brain tumors. In vitro studies have demonstrated that the cytotoxic activity of VCR is related to both extracellular concentration and duration of exposure. The attainment of higher plasma concentrations by injecting larger bolus doses of VCR has been limited by concerns about neurotoxicity. One possible alternative strategy for enhancing the antitumor efficacy of VCR involves prolonging the duration of in vivo exposure. Therefore, the authors explored the neurotoxicity and pharmacokinetics of VCR administered via a 96-hour continuous infusion after administration of a conventional bolus dose in a pediatric population.
The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has radically changed the clinical course of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The goals of the current study were to assess the change in the incidence of Kaposi sarcoma (KS) among European patients with HIV since the introduction of HAART and to identify the factors associated with the development of KS among patients receiving HAART.
Because the recovery of erectile function and the avoidance of positive surgical margins are important but competing outcomes, the decision to preserve or resect a neurovascular bundle (NVB) during radical prostatectomy (RP) should be based on the most accurate information concerning the location and extent of the tumor. In the current study, the authors determined the incremental value of endorectal magnetic resonance imaging (eMRI) in making this decision.
Gemcitabine-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is believed to be very rare, with an estimated incidence rate of 0.015%. Indications for gemcitabine are expanding, and comprehensive characterization of this complication is therefore important.
Based on preclinical findings and on the clinical antitumor efficacy of sequential paclitaxel/topotecan and topotecan/etoposide, the authors sought to define the maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) associated with a sequential combination of paclitaxel, topotecan, and etoposide in patients with solid tumors.
Although post-traumatic epilepsy accounts for a small number of epileptic patients, it should not be underestimated since it primarily affects children and young adults and can result in psychosocial disability and death.
Cauda equina syndrome with sphincter dysfunction is an uncommon and feared complication of lumbar disc herniation.
Several literature reports have demonstrated that cardiovascular disease is one of the most frequent pathologies in patients with spinal cord injury.
A new shunting principle taking advantage of the knowledge of normal CSF dynamics has been developed.
A large variety of inherited or acquired childhood disorders and conditions may present in conjunction with progressive bilateral stenosis and/or occlusion of the terminal segments of the internal carotid artery. In addition, the development of pathological collateral vessels can be observed in the vicinity of the steno-occlusive changes in these patients. This condition is known as moyamoya-like (MML) vasculopathy. The natural history, the angiographic appearance, and the pathology of MML vasculopathy probably differ from those of definite moyamoya disease. Adequate cerebral vascular imaging should be considered in all pediatric patients with inherited or acquired systemic disorders and symptoms attributable to cerebral ischemia.
Neurotrophic factors (nerve growth factor [NGF], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF] and glial-derived neurotrophic factor [GDNF]) are growth factors implicated in the growth and differentiation of brain nerve cells. An involvement of these factors in the biology and progression of some specific tumours has been suggested. In accordance with the role of neurotrophic factors in tumour behaviour the aim of the present study was to investigate their expression in two childhood brain neoplasms, namely low-grade astrocytomas and ependymomas.
Repair of myelomeningoceles larger than 5 cm in diameter is not easy. We describe a simple technique.
Impaired arterial dilatation response to nitroglycerin has been observed in adults with risk factors for atherosclerosis and in patients with established atherosclerotic disease. This defect parallels changes in vascular endothelial function and may be attributed to increased oxidative stress. Because atherosclerosis begins in childhood, we examined the correlates of nitrate-mediated dilatation (NMD) in children, including brachial artery endothelial function, oxidized LDL, and carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT).
Retrospective studies in dialysis patients have reported increased survival after coronary artery bypass (CAB) compared with coronary artery stenting and PTCA. The purpose of this study was to compare the long-term outcome of renal transplant recipients after stent, PTCA, or CAB with or without internal mammary grafting (CAB [IMG+] or CAB [IMG-]).
Plasma levels of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), a key determinant of extracellular matrix degradation, are increased in heart failure and in acute coronary syndromes. We investigated cross-sectional relations of plasma MMP-9 to vascular risk factors and echocardiographic left ventricular (LV) measurements.
The regulation of renal sympathetic activity in the setting of heart failure is largely unexplored. We used the norepinephrine spillover method to address the hypothesis that baroreflex control of renal sympathetic activity is blunted in heart failure.
Tissue factor (TF) is the main initiator of coagulation in vivo. Recently, however, a role for TF as a cell receptor involved in signal transduction has been suggested. The aim of the present study was to assess whether activated factor VII (FVIIa) binding to TF could induce smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation and to clarify the possible intracellular mechanism(s) responsible for this proliferation.
Physical fitness and level of regular exercise are closely related to cardiovascular health. A regimen of regular intensity-controlled treadmill exercise was implemented and withdrawn to identify cellular mechanisms associated with exercise capacity and maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max).
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) increases the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). A G(-30)A polymorphism in the beta-cell-specific promoter of glucokinase (GK-30PM) has been implicated in reduced pancreatic beta-cell function. Its impact on CAD has not been examined.
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels are used in the evaluation of patients with heart disease, yet there is little understanding of the effect of hypoxia on natriuretic peptide secretion. Furthermore, recent data suggest that oxytocin may mediate stretch-induced atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) secretion.
Controversy exists about the impact of prophylactic antibiotics on bacteremia after invasive dental procedures. The purpose of this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study was to determine the impact of amoxicillin prophylaxis on the incidence, nature, and duration of bacteremia from nasotracheal intubation and dental procedures in children.
In this study we evaluate the diastolic deformation of ischemic/reperfused myocardium and relate this deformation to tissue elastic properties.
Oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in ischemia and ischemia/reperfusion injury. Because p66(ShcA)-null (p66(ShcA)-/-) mice exhibit both lower levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species and increased resistance to cell death induced by oxidative stress, we investigated whether tissue damage that follows acute ischemia or ischemia/reperfusion was altered in p66(ShcA)-/- mice.
Recent studies suggest that aldosterone may impair endothelium-dependent vascular function through suppression of nitric oxide formation. Assessments of forearm blood flow or arterial compliance suggest a similar effect in humans. The present study was designed to determine whether chronic aldosterone excess in subjects with resistant hypertension impairs endothelium-dependent vascular reactivity as indexed by direct assessment of brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD).
MRI of specific components in atherosclerotic plaque may provide information on plaque stability and its potential to rupture. We evaluated gadofluorine in atherosclerotic rabbits using a new MR sequence that allows plaque detection within 1 hour after injection and assessed enhancement in lipid-rich and non-lipid-rich plaques.
Boys have been reported to be more susceptible to childhood wheezing, whereas girls are more susceptible later in life. This difference might be related to both genetic and environmental factors.
Infection with common childhood infectious diseases including geohelminth infections may provide protection against the development of atopy and allergic disease. Few studies have investigated risk factors for atopy among children living in rural areas of Latin America.
Identifying the protective effect of a higher number of siblings is a significant finding in understanding the aetiology of allergic sensitization, asthma, eczema, and hayfever. Knowledge about causes behind the sibling effect may allow us to prevent atopic manifestations.
A disintegrin and metalloprotease 33 (ADAM33) is expressed in the lung by fibroblasts and bronchial smooth muscle cells. Given its structure and cellular provenance, ADAM33 may be associated with airway remodelling and bronchial hyper-responsiveness. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes of the ADAM33 gene have previously been associated with asthma susceptibility in the Caucasian population.
IgE-mediated cow's milk proteins (CMPs) allergy shows a tendency to disappear with age. The sooner tolerance is detected, the earlier the substitute diets can be suspended and the quicker family emotional hardship is alleviated.
Several time-series studies have shown positive associations between pollen levels and asthma morbidity. However, few studies have included air pollution as a potential confounder when examining this relationship, and they have only done so on a linear basis.
T helper (Th)2 cells play an important role in the development of IgE-mediated diseases, with local overproduction of Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13) at the site of allergic inflammation. Furthermore, IL-10 has been suggested to play a modulatory role in the induction and maintenance of allergen-specific tolerance in human atopic diseases.
Previous studies have demonstrated significantly higher house dust mite (HDM) allergen levels from synthetic pillows, compared to feather pillows. Reasons for these differences could be lower permeability of feather pillow coverings to allergen in dust, greater HDM penetration of synthetic pillow covering, or both.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) and asthma are frequently associated and characterized by a Th2-dependent inflammation. Nasal and bronchial obstruction may be objectively measured.
Allergic rhinitis and asthma often co-exist and appear to produce a continuum of airway disease, but whether the clinical characteristics of asthma in patients with seasonal rhinitis differ from those of persistent asthma has not been examined.
IL-18 is a cytokine which is known to have an important role in the development of a Th1 lymphocyte response. As such, it may have a regulatory role in asthma by modifying Th2 lymphocyte responses. Cigarette smoking may amplify the airway inflammation associated with asthma.
Asthmatic airways are characterized by infiltration with a variety of inflammatory cells such as mast cells and eosinophils. Stem cell factor (SCF) is an important activating and chemotactic factor for both mast cells and eosinophils. In addition, it is a critical growth and differentiation factor for mast cells.
CD34(+) progenitor cells develop into tryptase(+), CD117(+) mast cells when cultured in the presence of recombinant human stem cell factor (rhSCF). However, spontaneous IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI) expression during human mast cell development is not well examined.
Remodelling of the asthmatic airway includes increased deposition of proteoglycan (PG) molecules. One of the stimuli driving airway remodelling may be excessive mechanical stimulation.
Eosinophil peroxidase and myeloperoxidase halogenate tyrosine residues in plasma proteins and generate 3-bromotyrosine (BY) and 3-chlorotyrosine (CY), respectively.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes are potent pro-inflammatory mediators that contribute to the pathophysiologic features observed in allergic asthma. Inhibitors of leukotriene receptors represent novel therapy in asthma treatment. In addition to the protection from early asthmatic responses, these drugs have recently been shown to protect from late airway responses too.
If monotherapy with an intranasal corticosteroid can alleviate both nasal and ocular symptoms of allergic rhinitis, treatment may be simplified and costs may be reduced.
Allergic rhinitis is characterized by an IgE-dependent inflammation. Nasal obstruction is related to allergic inflammation. Some antihistamines have been demonstrated to be capable of improving this nasal symptom.
Th1 and Th2 cells, resulting from antigenic stimulation in the presence of IL-12 and IL-4, respectively, are implicated in the pathology of various diseases including allergic and autoimmune diseases. Txk/Rlk is a member of Tec family tyrosine kinases. We reported that Txk acts as a Th1-specific transcription factor in the T lymphocytes.
Perilla and its constituent rosmarinic acid have been suggested to have anti-allergic activity. However, few studies have examined the effects on allergic asthma.
Breathing is one of the most important modes of sensitization to natural rubber latex (NRL) for health-care workers, a group most at risk. Cornstarch powder (CSp) from medical powdered NRL gloves is known to be an allergen carrier, and sensitization to NRL can occur by inhaling airborne particles from such gloves.
It has been reported that the toxins that Staphylococcus aureus produces are associated with the exacerbation of atopic dermatitis (AD). It has been shown in many studies that staphylococcal enterotoxin (SE) A and SEB contribute to AD by humoral immunity through IgE production as a superantigen. On the other hand, little attention has been paid to the relationship between AD and exfoliative toxin x (ETx).
Depression is a disorder that causes disability, with a profound adverse impact on all areas of psychosocial functioning. This is particularly true for those with treatment resistant depression (TRD). However, to date, no systematic assessments of psychosocial functioning for patients with TRD have been conducted.
Conventional depot antipsychotics can provide constant pharmacologic treatment, eliminating partial compliance and reducing relapse risk. Atypical antipsychotics, have improved clinical profiles but require daily dosing, compromising their overall effectiveness. As oral risperidone provides safety and efficacy benefits over oral haloperidol, improvements may be realized by replacing conventional with atypical agents in long-acting therapy. This report examines 50-weeks of long-acting risperidone therapy in patients previously stabilized with conventional depot antipsychotics.
Regarding complications of radiotherapy, the indications for adjuvant radiotherapy should be restricted. We conducted the present study to determine whether deep stromal invasion of the cervix could be excluded from the criteria used to identify patients for this treatment surgery.
In the United Kingdom, the Royal College of Pathologists have issued guidelines detailing how the depth of stromal invasion (DOI) in cervical cancer should be measured as a percentage of the overall cervical radius in millimeters. Several studies have found the assessment of the depth of stromal invasion by cancer of the cervix to be of prognostic value. These studies did not take into account patients whose diagnostic procedures required removal of much tumor (large loop excision of the transformation zone [LLETZ] and knife cone biopsies). Furthermore, the Royal College of Pathologists guidelines do not address this issue.
Given the paucity of data regarding hormone dependency, it was the purpose of this study to screen for the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptors in uterine adenosarcoma (UAS).
Topotecan and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) interact with topoisomerase I and II (topo I and II), respectively, with schedule dependent, and potentially synergistic cytotoxicity.
Clear cell adenocarcinoma (CCA) of the vagina and cervix in young women is associated with prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES). Parenchymal pulmonary metastases are known to occur following treatment of the primary tumor. Most recurrences present within 2 to 3 years of the initial diagnosis.
Chylous ascites is an uncommon complication following para-aortic lymph node dissection in the management of gynecologic malignancies. Treatment options are serial paracentesis, medium-chain triglyceride diet, total parenteral nutrition and somatostatin as conservative management and peritoneovenous shunting, and surgical exploration for refractory cases.
Self-assessment assists nurses to maintain and improve their practice by identifying their strengths and areas that may need to be further developed. Professional competence profiles encourage them to take an active part in the learning process of continuing education. Although competence recognition offers a way to motivate practising nurses to produce quality care, few measuring tools are available for this purpose.
Decision tools such as clinical decision support systems must be built on a solid foundation of nursing knowledge. However, current methods to determine the best evidence do not include a broad range of knowledge sources. As clinical decision support systems will be designed to assist nurses when making critical decisions, methods need to be devised to glean the best possible knowledge.
The process and content of nurse practitioner educational preparation has received scant research attention, despite increasing interest in and investigations into nurse practitioner services in Australia and internationally.
Lecturer Practitioner roles are well established in the United Kingdom. The national literature demonstrates that these staff are valuable to National Health Service trusts and universities however, their roles are busy and demanding, with conflicting expectations from the two employers. In addition, their role in addressing the theory-practice gap - a major reason for their establishment - is at best unclear. Although a number of qualitative studies have explored the topic, there have been no systematic attempts to develop the role or to quantify the effects on postholders.
Giving birth to a child with cleft lip and palate (CLP) can be emotionally traumatic for parents. The facial appearance awakens feelings and reactions in the family and other people. Feeding these children in the neonatal period is known to be difficult. Previous research has mainly dealt with visual defects, feeding and speech problems. There is a lack of studies about parents' experiences of having a child with CLP.
Professionals and patients understand the experience of illness from different worlds. Professionals' explanatory models focus on aetiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology and treatment, while patients' explanatory models are more focused on consequences and influences on daily life. The differences between patients and professionals in their understanding often result in conflicting expectations about treatment, priorities and outcomes of care.
There is mounting pressure on nurses and midwives in the United Kingdom to use research findings to inform their practice. However, many still find research difficult to understand and are poorly prepared by education to make use of it. Hence, there is a pressing need to evaluate the research education included in nursing and midwifery curricula.
The physical, cognitive, and emotional sequelae of stroke underscore the need for nursing interventions across the continuum of care. Although there are several published studies evaluating community interventions for stroke survivors, the nursing role has not been clearly articulated.
The 'information explosion' presents a significant challenge to the nursing profession. One way to assist access to information is to provide electronic information resources at the point of care. A large-scale survey of nurses working in the public health system in New South Wales, Australia, was undertaken as part of a 2-year evaluation of the Clinical Information Access Program (CIAP). This is a website which provides 24 hour, online access to a range of evidence sources at the point of care.
In 1998, we carried out a study of interdisciplinary preoperative education in cardiac surgery given by nurses, physicians and health educators. Overlaps were found in gathering and providing information by physicians, nurses and health educators, and gaps were found in providing psychosocial information and emotional support. Based on these findings, an information protocol was developed.
The high incidence of patient falls in a hospital setting is a major concern in any health system. Research findings have reported the risk factors for these falls as age, gender, certain medications, mental status, chronic diseases and environmental factors. Falls may lead to fear, pain, slight or severe injuries, increase the duration of hospital stay, cause patient discomfort and affect quality of life.
In Europe, several filler devices are currently on the market for use in aesthetic dermatology and some of them cause severe, permanent, adverse reactions. Since 1996 a non-animal stabilized hyaluronic acid (NASHA) from Q-Medical, Sweden, has been introduced and is becoming a leading product in aesthetic dermatology. Hyaluronic acid has no species specificity and skin testing is not recommended before treatment.
Demodex folliculorum and Demodex brevis are obligatory parasites in the hair follicles and in the pilosebaceous glands. Although most people are infested with these mites, only a small number develop the clinical symptoms of demodicosis. The objective of this study was to determine the distinguishing features of the immune response to the infestation of the skin by Demodex mites.
Head and neck dermatitis (HND) is a variant of atopic dermatitis often seen in young adults. A hypersensitivity to Malassezi antigens is considered to be of pathogenic importance. Previous mostly uncontrolled studies have shown that oral antimycotics might be of use in this condition.
Propionibacterium acnes is primarily associated with the pathogenesis of acne vulgaris but reports are increasing in number implicating P. acnes in other diseases such as abscess formation, meningitis and endocarditis. The pathogenicity of P. acnes is thought to be partly due to the interaction of the bacterium with the immune system. Historically, investigations have focused on humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to P. acnes antigens without attention to the possibility that different antigens may be expressed by different isolates.
The treatment of viral warts remains challenging. A variety of treatment modalities have been used with a range of success. Fluorouracil has been shown to be effective in treating warts but the method of its delivery directly onto the affected tissue has been of little efficacy. We evaluated the safety and efficacy of intralesional 5-fluorouracil in the treatment of verrucae.
Eccrine porocarcinoma (EP) is a rare malignant tumour arising in the acrosyringium, with about 50% of the cases developing local recurrence or metastatic disease. No standard therapy protocols for metastatic disease exist. In the past, only short remissions were achieved by applying combinations of cytotoxic agents, which were associated with severe side-effects.
In upper lip defects both the design of the flap and the position of the Burrow's triangles may be reversed so as to conceal the scars among skin wrinkles, folds and the mucosal lip to maximize the aesthetic outcome.
Our aim was to quantify the incremental costs of longer operating times of residents and less-experienced junior consultants when compared with senior consultants on the basis of two surgical routine procedures.
Herpes zoster oticus is a rare illness with cutaneous symptoms (eruptions) and a colored picture of brain nerve failures. The clinical symptoms, the symptom constellation, diagnostics and therapy, however, have been examined till now only in few studies.
Preparing exercises at the temporal bone are a prerequisite for the knowledge of the anatomical special features of this region and for learning the fundamentals of the tympanic cavity surgery. Since however fewer human temporal bones are available, the search for back-up models already took place in the last years.
It is controversially discussed whether strictly olfactory stimuli are able to evoke changes of breathing patterns. A number work groups argue that the more or less noticeable irritative component of odors are responsible for a respiratory response. Other work groups regard changes of breathing pattern as an indicator for an intact smell ability during "pure" olfactory stimulation.
The inactivation of the tumor suppressor gene p16 plays an important role in the development of malignant tumors. P16 loss can result from point mutations, loss of heterozygosity (LOH) or methylation of the promoter region.
Numerous new modalities in computertomography (CT), in particular Multislice-Spiral-CT and Virtual Endoscopy, and novel developments in endoscopy and spirometry gave us reason to review the current state of the art in diagnostics of tracheal stenosis (TS).
Cochlear implants (CI) convert acoustic events into electrical pulses. The auditory nerve picks these tiny electrical pulses up and sends them to the brain. The dynamics of the audible sound is compressed considerably. The limits for stimulation are determined with the patient. A map law determines which sound pressure level is assigned to which stimulation level. A sufficient speech understanding requests an allocation of high stimulation levels for weak sound signals. The higher the sound level, the lower the increase. Unfortunately, with such kind of map law unwanted background noise is also presented as well audible stimulation. These stimuli are often annoying to CI users in everyday situations.
While pulmonary nodules can be substantially divided into solid and ground-glass opacity (GGO) ones on CT image, they have different biological natures which could cause false positive or false negative to diagnose malignancy on positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET). To determine the effectiveness of PET for small pulmonary nodules, the nodules were classified into solid and GGO ones, of which results were compared with the data of PET scans. The lower limit size of nodules for PET imaging was also evaluated.
In patients with advanced age-related macular degeneration (AMD), massive subretinal hemorrhage may sometimes be the reason for a loss of peripheral vision, leading to a significantly reduced quality of life.
Visualization of the anterior chamber angle (ACA) is an important diagnostic part of evaluating patients with glaucoma. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the intra- and interobserver variability and reliability of the ACA and angle opening distance (AOD) measurements using optical coherence tomography (OCT).
Aim of the study was to evaluate the validity of quantitative planimetry of the optic disc with a new digital method and to assess the correlation of the measurements with morphological changes in eyes with low tension glaucoma.
In earlier animal studies retinal accumulation of ICG after intravitreous application with subsequent transport to the optic nerve could be observed. In order to evaluate the possible retinal accumulation of ICG after ILM staining during macular hole surgery and to examine the potential changes in optic nerve function, a prospective study was initiated.
Purtscher's retinopathy is accompanied by a distinct loss of vision as a result of severe trauma to the chest or skull. Reports on visual prognosis in the literature are not uniform.
The Lowe oculo-cerebro-renal syndrome (OCRL1) is a rare X-linked disease which causes impairment of visual acuity. The situation may be further complicated by corneal alterations.
Despite blatant indications, such as behavioural and contextual cues, infant pain is often undermanaged by adult caretakers. The belief that infants are limited in their abilities to comprehend the meaning of an experience or recall that experience has been used to minimize or deny the need for intervention in this vulnerable population.
The efficacy of some common, questionable chronic pain interventions has been debated and it is unclear why sufferers of chronic noncancer pain agree to receive them. This study attempts to determine if chronic pain sufferers characteristically more readily accept treatment with questionable benefit.
In the view of future clinical trials, defining possible legal theories under which xenotransplantation center could be held responsible for any adverse effect on public health is becoming increasingly important.
In the concordant hamster-to-rat cardiac xenograft model, recipients treated with cobra venom factor for the first 10 days following transplantation and daily with Cyclosporine A (CsA) do not reject their grafts. However, when CsA is withdrawn on day 40, an acute cellular rejection occurs within 4 +/- 1 days. Allografts performed in the same conditions are rejected within 18 +/- 4 days.
Important phylogenetic differences between pig and human tissues prevent xenotransplantation from becoming a clinically feasible option. Humans lack the galactose-alpha1,3-galactose (alphaGal) epitope on endothelial cell surfaces and therefore have preformed anti-alphaGal antibodies. The role of these antibodies in rejection of non-vascular xenografts remains controversial. This study investigated the role of anti-alphaGal antibodies in rejection of non-vascularized alphaGal+/+ grafts in alphaGal -/- mice.
Natural anti-porcine antibodies play a major role in hyperacute solid organ xenograft rejection in the pig-to-non-human primate model. Work from other groups and our experience in transplantation experiments has shown that antibody levels are highly variable between non-human primate species, and that extremely high levels can mediate hyperacute rejection even if organs from animals transgenic for human decay-accelerating factor are used.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether transmission of porcine endogenous retrovirus (PERV) occurs in a model of diabetes reversal by the xenotransplantation of adult porcine islets (APIs) into immunoincompetent diabetic rodents.
Rejection of pancreatic islet xenografts in mice shares immunopathological features with a Th1-associated delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction. The aim of the present study was to investigate the mechanism of acute cellular xenograft rejection in a strain of mice with a targeted gene disruption of the toll-like receptor (TLR) signal adaptor protein MyD88. These mice have been shown to have markedly impaired Th1 immunity.
ABI793 (ABI) is a human monoclonal antibody (mAb) specific for human CD154. To assess the suitability of ABI for baboon transplantation studies, we carried out in vitro studies to determine ABI's reactivity with baboon cells expressing CD154, performed in vivo pharmacokinetic studies in two baboons, and tested the effect of ABI administration on elicited antibody production in two baboons undergoing either pig hematopoietic progenitor cell (PBPC) or heterotopic heart transplantation.
Successful hematopoietic cell allotransplantation results in donor-specific tolerance, but this approach has been unsuccessful in the wild-type pig-to-baboon xenotransplantation model, as pig cells were lost from the circulation within 5 days. However, after cessation of immunosuppressive therapy on day 28, all baboons demonstrated non-specific unresponsiveness on mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR) for at least 30 days. We have now investigated the transplantation of bone marrow (BM) cells from miniature swine homozygous for alpha1,3-galactosyltransferase gene-knockout (GalT-KO).
The production of transgenic pigs for xenotransplantation is based on an urgent human need for transplantable organs. Although the particular genetic modifications are small and do not alter the organism phenotypically, several authors consider it to be morally problematic. In this paper we attempt to establish if there are genuine reasons to refrain from producing 'humanized' pigs.
Cancer is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the USA and despite many recent advances in detection and treatment, over half a million cancer patients in this country will die from their disease each year.
Defining whether people with life-limiting illnesses (PLLI) who do not access specialized palliative care services (SPCS) have unmet needs is crucial in planning and evaluating palliative care. This study seeks to establish the viability of a whole-of-population method to help characterize SPCS access through proxy report.
This study was conducted to clarify the preoperative risk of thrombosis in elderly patients with femoral neck fracture by determining the relationships between hemostatic variables and time from injury until surgical repair.
Incidence of spontaneous pneumothorax (SPT) is increasing recently. Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) is, at present, accepted generally as a procedure of choice for surgical treatment of SPT. This study was designed to investigate whether pre-operative complications and epidural anesthesia contribute to post-operative outcome following VATS for SPT.
Because vascular access dysfunction results in substantial morbidity in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis, this complication should be avoided. However, we experienced four patients whose hemodialysis shunts failed within 24 hours postoperatively.
Wrong drugs, overdose of drugs, and incorrect administration route remain unsolved problems in anesthetic practice. We determined the incidence and outcome of drug administration error in the operating room of Japanese Society of Anesthesiologists Certified Training Hospitals.
Previous studies have used questionnaires to evaluate G-LOC incident rates in different aircraft types, but no studies of G-LOC-related incident, crash, and fatality rates in different aircraft types were found in a search of the literature.
Calcium balances, regulated by the calcium endocrine system, are negative during spaceflight but have not been reported in flight simulation models using fully mature small animals.
Exercise and diving have generally been associated with an increased risk of decompression sickness (DCS), thus accounting for the lack of studies involving exercise during decompression. However, theoretical and observational evidence contrary to this association motivated the present investigation on the effects of moderate, intermittent exercise during diving and/or during decompression on venous gas emboli (VGE) activity following a dive.
Altitude decompression sickness (DCS) is a health risk associated with the conduct of high altitude airdrop operations, high altitude reconnaissance, future fighter operations, hypobaric chamber training, unpressurized flight, and extravehicular activity (EVA) in space. The treatment for DCS includes the provision of 100% oxygen (O2) at ground level (GLO) and/or hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO). In this paper we examine the effect of repressurization to ground level from hypobaric conditions on DCS symptoms. Timely recompression (descent at first recognition of any DCS symptom) may be a safe, effective treatment for the large majority of DCS symptoms.
Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary thromboembolism are potential problems for travelers, including those who fly. We hypothesized that prehydration with an electrolyte-glucose beverage (EGB) would be better than water for maintaining body fluid balance and preventing increased blood viscosity in immobilized men.
While resistance exercise (REX) attenuates knee extensor (KE) mass and strength deficits during short-term unloading, additional treatments concurrently administered with REX are required to reduce the greater losses seen with longer periods of unloading.
Current military operations often require pharmaceutical methods to sustain alertness and facilitate sleep in order to maintain operational readiness. This study was designed to compare the sleep-inducing power of four medications.
The extent to which modafinil and caffeine reverse fatigue effects (defined as performance decrements with time on task) during total sleep deprivation was investigated.
When a helicopter ditches into water, it immediately inverts due to the weight of the engines and then fills with water. Locating the emergency exit for escape under such conditions is a difficult task. A new lighting system for an escape exit has been developed that illuminates on contact with water. The detectibility of the lighting was investigated under varying conditions of ambient illumination, water turbidity, and viewing distance.
This study investigated pilots' visual scan patterns on an uninhabited aerial vehicle (UAV) flight display that used moving textbox symbology to emulate vertical moving pointers for the primary flight instruments.
Many witnesses attest that victims of a disaster often perish despite reasonable possibilities for escaping because their behavior during the initial moments of the accident was inappropriate to the situation. Frequently witnesses report victims 'freezing' in the face of danger.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) may be subject to change during altitude exposure. This may be an important consideration for long-haul flights. In this study, intraocular pressure change was investigated following exposure to an altitude of 10,000 ft during flight in an unpressurized aircraft.
The International Space Station will need to be as capable as possible in providing Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Previous studies with manikins in parabolic microgravity (0 G) have shown that delivering CPR in microgravity is difficult. End tidal carbon dioxide (PetCO2) has been previously shown to be an effective non-invasive tool for estimating cardiac output during cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Animal models have shown that this diagnostic adjunct can be used as a predictor of survival when PetCO2 values are maintained above 25% of pre-arrest values.
Increased G-tolerance in flight is usually achieved by isometric contraction of the muscles of the abdomen and of lower extremities, along with forceful expiration against a closed or partially closed glottis. Measurement and analysis of the forces developed by a pilot's leg muscles during +Gz acceleration is one of the steps needed to develop specialized physical conditioning programs.
Infants with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) show abnormalities of body composition. Children with PWS treated with growth hormone (GH) demonstrate improved body composition and motor skills.
Growth disorders are common in children with sickle cell disease (SCD). The etiology for growth disturbances in this population appears to be multifactorial. Recent evidence suggests abnormalities in the growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and IGF binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) axis may play a role.
Over the past four years, West Nile virus (WNV) has become a significant health issue in North America. In 2002, WNV infection made its first appearance in the human population in Canada.
Between August 25 and September 25, 2003 seven patients with West Nile virus neurological manifestations were identified through the hospital neurology consultation services in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Three of the seven patients were treated with interferon alpha-2b (IFN alpha-2b). In this report we document the clinical characteristics of these seven cases.
The growing science and technology of various neurosurgical areas fosters subspecialization. The transmission of this expanding knowledge base to the neurosurgical resident becomes an increasing challenge. A survey of neurosurgical residency program directors was undertaken to evaluate their response to the budding subspecialization of spine surgery within general neurosurgery.
Medical error is an extremely important component of patient safety and requires intense study. The present investigation undertook to examine patients' perceptions and attitudes regarding medical error.
Head injury is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in pediatrics. Comprehensive studies on outcome are scarce despite significant clinical concern that multiple areas of functioning may be impaired following moderate to severe head injury. The literature suggests that sequelae include not only medical problems but also impairments in cognitive functioning.
The pathophysiological basis for differences in disability in patients with multiple sclerosis is unclear.
Long latency reflexes (LLR) include afferent sensory, efferent motor and central transcortical pathways. It is supposed that the cortical relay time (CRT) reflects the conduction of central transcortical loop of LLR. Recently, evidence related to the cortical involvement in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been reported in some studies. Our aim was to investigate the CRT alterations in patients with MS.
The nervous system is a major target of HIV-1 infection and site of many complications of AIDS. Most of our knowledge pertaining to the range and frequency of neuropathology in HIV-1/AIDS is from large centres outside Canada in different social and health care settings. The goal of the present study was to describe HIV-1/AIDS-associated neuropathology before and during the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy at a Canadian teaching centre.
Double cortex syndrome is a malformation in which there is a band of subcortical heterotopic grey matter separated from the cortex by white matter. The functional activity of the heterotopic neurons is unclear.
Devic's syndrome is a demyelinating disease of the spinal cord and optic nerves. It tends to have a poor prognosis, probably due to the occurrence of necrosis within lesions. There is no proven effective treatment although relapses are commonly treated with corticosteroids and people with recurrent attacks may be managed with chronic immune suppressing treatments. Intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG) and plasma exchange are reasonable treatment options because Devic's syndrome is believed to be antibody mediated. We report two patients of Devic's syndrome that stabilized following initiation of monthly IVIG. PATIENT 1: A 42-year-old woman with a 23 year history of Devic's syndrome continued to have frequent attacks of optic neuritis unresponsive to daily corticosteroids and azathioprine. Since initiation of monthly IVIG 5 1/2 years ago she has had no further definite attacks. She has also noted minimal improvement in color perception. PATIENT 2: A 58-year-old woman with a three year history of Devic's syndrome experienced five attacks during the first 16 months of disease. Monthly IVIG was associated with complete cessation of relapses and significantly improved neurological status over one year of treatment.
Adult onset tic disorders are usually secondary in origin. We report a case of adult onset tic disorder following carbon monoxide (CO) intoxication with typical magnetic resonance imaging features.
Foreign accent syndrome is a speech disorder which leads listeners to perceive the patient as having a foreign accent. It has been recognized previously after stroke, brain injury or unknown causes.
Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition in the cervical spine is infrequently symptomatic. This is especially true at the craniocervical junction and upper cervical spine.
Little is understood about the evolution of structural and functional brain changes during the course of uncontrolled focal status epilepticus in humans.
Major depression makes an important contribution to disease burden in Canada. In principle, the burden of major depression can be reduced by the provision of treatment within the health care system. In a previous data analysis, the National Population Health Survey (NPHS) reported an increase in antidepressant (AD) use between 1994 and 1998. In this paper, the analysis is extended to 2000, and additional aspects of health care utilization are described.
Attempted suicide by intentional drug overdose is an understudied subject in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is an Islamic country where suicide or attempted suicide is strictly prohibited. Despite the strong religious and constitutional sanctions against suicide, cases of intentional drug overdose occasionally occur. Our study represents the first attempt to better understand and characterize this sensitive topic.
Intravesical instillation of bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) is efficient for prophylaxis of superficial bladder cancer and treatment for carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the upper urethelial cancer. However, the incidence of adverse effects is relatively high, and those include reactive arthritis. We retrospectively evaluated the incidence and the outcome of reactive arthritis following intravesical BCG therapy for urothelial cancers.
The three divergent HIV-1 groups M, N and O were very probably introduced into the human population by independent cross-species transmissions of SIVcpz from the chimpanzee subspecies Pan troglodytes troglodytes in central Africa.
Antiretroviral therapy has dramatically reduced the morbidity and mortality of infection due to HIV. The emergence of drug-resistant virus has limited the usefulness of many drugs.
The frequency of HIV-1 co/super-infection is unknown despite their implications for public health and vaccine development. This issue was addressed during an epidemic of both CRF11 and B subtype among intravenous drug users (IVDUs).
Several studies found increased survival times and decreased hospitalization rates since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
The recent withdrawal of cerivastatin by the manufacturer has led to an interest in hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) inhibitors and the incidence of myopathy. We review the epidemiology, pharmacology, and presumed mechanisms of statin-induced myopathy, with a particular focus on cerivastatin.
The cardiovascular risk reduction observed in many trials of lipid-lowering agents is greater than expected on the basis of observed low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level reductions. Our objective was to explore the degree to which high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) level changes explain cardiovascular risk reduction.
In the ASsessment of the Safety of a New Thrombolytic 3 (ASSENT-3) study, full-dose tenecteplase plus enoxaparin or half-dose tenecteplase plus abciximab reduced the frequency of ischemic complications of acute myocardial infarction, when compared to full-dose tenecteplase plus unfractionated heparin. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of these fibrinolytic regimens on 1-year mortality.
Previous studies have generally suggested no effect of coffee consumption on the risk of acute myocardial infarction. The effect of coffee consumption on prognosis after acute myocardial infarction is uncertain.
Periodontal disease (PD) has been linked to adverse cardiovascular events, but the mechanism for this association is unknown. We hypothesized that PD is common in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and, when present, may result in an enhanced systemic inflammatory response with higher C-reactive protein (CRP) levels.
Timely access to emergency cardiac care and survival is partly dependent on early recognition of heart attack symptoms and immediate action by calling emergency services. We assessed public recognition of major heart attack symptoms and knowledge to call 9-1-1 for an acute event.
Diabetic nephropathy is associated with increased cardiovascular events. Coronary atherosclerosis is responsible for many of these events, but other mechanisms such as impaired flow reserve may be involved. The purpose of this study was to define the prevalence and mechanism of abnormal coronary velocity reserve (CVR) in patients with diabetes mellitus who have nephropathy and a normal coronary artery.
Several prospective studies have reported resting heart rate (HR) to be a risk factor for certain cause-specific death, together with sex- or age-specific differences in the effects of HR on death. However, there have been few prospective data from non-Western populations.
Although the ratio of total to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (TC/HDL) is a powerful predictor of cardiovascular disease (CVD), few studies have investigated which factors are associated with changes in this ratio over time. We examined predictors of a change in TC/HDL ratio over a period of 14 years among 4451 men free of CVD from the Physicians' Health Study.
There is evidence that aerobic exercise improves endothelial function in healthy subjects as well as in patients with chronic heart failure. However, it is unknown whether this effect occurs in patients with recent myocardial infarction (AMI).
There are few population-based data on long-term management of patients after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), despite the high risk for future major vascular events among this group. We assessed the prevalence and correlates of pharmacotherapy for prevention of new cardiac events in a large population-based series.
Sex disparities in procedure use for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) have been well documented in selected populations in the 1980s and early 1990s. As little is known about more recent trends in sex disparities in the general population, we analyzed more recent rates of catheterization, angioplasty, and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) performed before discharge for acute myocardial infarction.
Experimental and clinical evidence suggests a preventive role for agiotensin-coverting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors on the development of atrial fibrillation. However, the effect of ACE inhibition on hospitalization with atrial tachyarrhythmias in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction is not known. We sought to determine whether enalapril treatment reduced hospitalizations with atrial tachyarrhythmias in patients with LV dysfunction.
Subgroup analysis from the Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock (SHOCK) trial indicated that patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI) complicated by cardiogenic shock (CS) who were &gt; or =75 years old did not benefit from early revascularization and may have been harmed; their mortality rate at 30 days was 75%. The applicability of this subset analysis from a select patient population enrolled in a randomized trial to the general population is unclear.
Levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A protein (SAA), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) can predict coronary restenosis following angioplasty and stent deployment in patients with unstable angina. We investigated whether measurement of periprocedural inflammatory markers predicted the angiographic outcome at 6 months in stable angina patients undergoing coronary stenting.
B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is secreted from the cardiac ventricles in response to increased wall tension.
Recently revised American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines have suggested that exercise test scores be used in decisions concerning patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Pretest and exercise test scores derived for use in women without known CAD have not been tested in women with a low prevalence of CAD.
Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen-receptor modulator shown to improve several cardiovascular risk factors in postmenopausal women with breast cancer. In animal studies tamoxifen inhibits the progression of atherosclerosis. Although the presence of a history with tamoxifen treatment is related to a lower intima-media thickness (IMT) of the common carotid artery, data from controlled follow-up studies are lacking to support this observation.
No previous studies have compared myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) and single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with a medium likelihood of CAD. This study was developed to test the hypothesis that MCE is superior to SPECT for the detection of CAD.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with an increased rate of cardiac amino acid catabolism that could interfere with cardiac function.
Few studies have suggested association between mitral annular calcification (MAC) and osteoporosis in women who are post-menopausal. However, the association of MAC with osteoporosis in women, in relation to bone resorption, as assessed by using the dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry method (DEXA), have not been performed. We sought to examine the association between MAC and osteoporosis.
Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) regulates genes involved in lipoprotein metabolism, hemostasis, and inflammation. It thus represents a candidate gene for the risk of dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, and coronary heart disease (CHD). Nonesterified fatty acids are PPARalpha ligands and their levels are increased in patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM-2). The effects of the polymorphism of PPARalpha on plasma lipids and atherosclerosis development have been until now contradictory. The present study was performed to evaluate the association between the PPARalpha polymorphism L162V and the presence of dyslipidemia and/or atherosclerotic disease in patients with DM-2 in comparison with nondiabetic controls.
Rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonist, is used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus, and in vitro data has shown that it may have anti-platelet effects independent of its hypoglycemic effects. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of rosiglitazone on circulating platelet activity in patients without diabetes mellitus who had coronary artery disease.
Until the publication of the Serum Urine and Ultrasound Screening Study (SURUSS) report, it was difficult to compare the different antenatal screening tests for Down's Syndrome because of variations in study designs. We here present the main results from SURUSS, updated to take account of recent information on nuchal translucency in Down's Syndrome pregnancies, and discuss their implications.
One of the challenges of health-related quality of life research is to translate statistically significant health-related quality of life changes into interpretable clinical or medically important ones.
The morphology of the fetal ECG complex provides information on the fetal condition during labour, such as the ST segment and T-wave configuration. We hypothesised that the intrapartum fetal QT interval may provide additional information on the condition of the fetus, as it is known that the QT interval reacts to situations of stress and exercise.
Because loops connect regular secondary structures, analysis of the former depends directly on the definition of the latter. The numerous assignment methods, however, can offer different definitions. In a previous study, we defined a structural alphabet composed of 16 average protein fragments, which we called Protein Blocks (PBs). They allow an accurate description of every region of 3D protein backbones and have been used in local structure prediction. In the present study, we use this structural alphabet to analyze and predict the loops connecting two repetitive structures.
Electroporation (EP) is a widely used non-viral gene transfer method. We have attempted to develop an exact protocol to maximize DNA expression while minimizing tissue damage following EP of skeletal muscle in vivo. Specifically, we investigated the effects of varying injection techniques, electrode surface geometry, and plasmid mediums.
Local ventricular refractoriness and its dispersion during ventricular fibrillation (VF) have not been well evaluated, due to methodological difficulties.
The Wnt/Wg pathway plays an important role in the developmental program of many cells and tissues in a variety of organisms. In addition, many Wnts and components of their downstream signaling pathways, such as beta-catenin and APC, have been implicated in tumorigenesis. Over the past years, several genes have been identified as Wnt responsive, including c-myc, siamois, and cyclin D1.
The independent effects of stress on the health of primary care patients might be different for different types of clinic populations. This study examines these relationships in a low-income female population of patients attending a family planning clinic.
After perinatal transmission of hepatitis B virus, infants of anti-HBe positive HBsAg carrier mothers may develop fulminant hepatitis B. Previously it has been suggested, that fulminant hepatitis B in adults was associated with specific mutations in the HBV-genome. The aim of this study was to investigate, whether specific viral variants are associated with fulminant hepatitis B in young infants.
Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic chromosomal modification in the gametes or zygotes that results in a non-random monoallelic expression of specific autosomal genes depending upon their parent of origin. Approximately 44 human genes have been reported to be imprinted. A majority of them are clustered, including some on chromosome segment 11p15.5. We report here the imprinting status of the SLC22A1LS gene from the human chromosome segment 11p15.5
Patients who present to medical practices without health insurance or with serious co-morbidities can become fiscal disasters to those who care for them. Their consumption of scarce resources has caused consternation among providers and institutions, especially as it concerns the amount and type of care they should receive. In fact, some providers may try to avoid caring for them altogether, or at least try to limit their institutional or practice exposure to them.
Elevated white blood cell counts (WBC) in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) increase the risk of recurrent events, but it is not known if this is exacerbated by pro-inflammatory factors. We sought to identify whether pro-inflammatory genetic variants contributed to alterations in WBC and C-reactive protein (CRP) in an ACS population.
The limited circulation of many of the agents that are likely to be used in a bioterrorism attack precludes the ready availability of positive controls. This means that only specialized laboratories can screen for the presence of these agents by nucleic amplification assays. Calibrated controls are also necessary for quantitative measurements. Primers and probes to be used in both conventional and real-time PCR assays were designed for the detection of agents likely to be used by a bioterrorist. Three plasmids, each of which contains 4 to 6 specific sequences from agents on the CDC Category A and B list (excluding RNA viruses) were constructed. Two plasmids incorporate the sequences of Category A and B agents, respectively. The third plasmid incorporates sequences from Variola major and organisms that cause rash-like illnesses that may be clinically confused with smallpox. An "exogenic sequence", introducing a NotI restriction site was incorporated in the native sequences of the bioterrorism agents inserted in plasmids. The designed molecular system for detection of bioterrorism agents was tested on each of these agents (except Monkeypox virus, Smallpox virus and 2 Burkholderia species for which no native DNA was available) and a collection of 50 isolates of C. burnetii using constructed plasmids as positive controls.
Several studies have suggested an association between the functional Val158Met polymorphism in the Catechol-O-Methyltransferase (COMT) gene and neurocognitive performance. Two studies showed that subjects with the low activity Met allele performed better on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and another study found an effect on processing speed and attention.
Low literacy is common in Hong Kong and China, especially among the females and the elderly. These are often the patients with the greatest health care needs. However little is known about how low literacy affects the ability of patients to obtain adequate medical care and comply with the recommendations of health professionals.
The risk compensation theory is a widely used concept in transport economics to analyze driver risk behaviour. This article explores the feasibility of applying the theory in blood transfusion to raise important questions regarding the increased blood safety measures and their possible effects on blood usage (e.g., the appropriateness in transfusion). Further, it presents the findings of a pilot survey of physicians in Canada.
Arabidopsis thaliana copper metallochaperone CCH is a functional homologue of yeast antioxidant ATX1, involved in cytosolic copper transport. In higher plants, CCH has to be transported to specialised cells through plasmodesmata, being the only metallochaperone reported to date that leaves the cell where it is synthesised. CCH has two different domains, the N-terminal domain conserved among other copper-metallochaperones and a C-terminal domain absent in all the identified non-plant metallochaperones. The aim of the present study was the biochemical and biophysical characterisation of the C-terminal domain of the copper metallochaperone CCH.
Wilms' tumor is rarely found in adults and there are no established treatment guidelines for such tumors in adults. Whereas calcification is a common finding in neuroblastoma, it is considered uncommon in Wilms' tumor.
It is well known that blood pressure measurement with a standard 12-13 cm wide cuff is erroneous for large arms.
The Keito machine offers automatic measurements of blood pressure (BP), height and weight on insertion of coins and has been introduced in pharmacies.
We determined the diagnosis of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasis (HHT) in a suspected HHT family, identified ALK1 gene mutation and established a gene diagnosis method of HHT. The level of related plasma proteins (transforming growth factor beta and thrombomodulin) were also analyzed.
We identified the gene mutations in two Chinese pedigree of type I hereditary protein C deficiency and type I hereditary antithrombin deficiency.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare thrombotic microangiopathy. In this study we investigated the von Willebrand factor-cleaving protease (vWF-cp) activity deficiency in patients with TTP.
Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting is fast-becoming a procedure of choice for elective revascularization in high-risk patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease. However, the role of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for patients with acute coronary syndromes requiring emergency revascularization still requires validation. We present our experience to show the feasibility of off-pump coronary artery surgery as an emergency revascularization technique.
Immunostimulating agents made from bacterial extracts represent a class of medications that contains antigens derived from several bacterial strains and their potential ability to prevent bacterial infections results from the stimulation of the nonspecific component of the immune system. The present study investigated the effect of the oral immunostimulant Broncho-Vaxom, which includes material from eight different species of bacteria that are frequently present in the lower respiratory tract, on the frequency and severity of acute exacerbation in patients with chronic bronchitis accompanied by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
In general, it is very important to understand the state of T cell immune response against tumor cells in leukemia patients and it is especially critical to assess the T cell repertoire of untreated patients. As we know, few studies have dealt with the distribution of oligoclonal T cells in leukemia, so we investigated the distribution and clonality of TCR Vbeta repertoire of T cells in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in chronic phase.
Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment has been proven to be effective in improving the symptoms of coexisting coronary heart disease (CHD) in patients with obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS). However, it is still unclear whether such improvements are linked to changes in vascular endothelial function. This research was carried out to investigate the effects of CPAP treatment on vascular endothelial function in patients with OSAHS and CHD.
The aim of this study was to evaluate single fiber electromyography (SFEMG) in the diagnosis of ocular myasthenia gravis (OMG), compared with repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS) and blood concentration of antibody to acetylcholine receptor (AchRAb).
Stroke unit is the most effective treatment method to benefit stroke patients. Our study is to evaluate the early effectiveness of a hospital stroke unit (SU).
A voluntary procedure for reporting adverse drug reactions (ADRs) was formally put in place in 1989. However, only a small proportion of ADR reports are actually forwarded to the national monitoring center. To identify the reasons for underreporting, the authors investigated the awareness and attitudes of healthcare professionals (doctors, nurses, and administrators) toward the ADR system in China. In addition, the authors sought to formulate approaches to improve the current ADR reporting system.
Long-term peritoneal dialysis (PD) requires that the peritoneal membrane remain effective for dialysis. Research directed toward human peritoneal morphology and structure is limited. The present study was performed to investigate morphological changes of the human peritoneal membrane during PD and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of its functional deterioration.
In general, sentinel lymph node (SLN) can reflect the whole state of the entire drainage area. The present study evaluated the clinical significance of sentinel lymph node identification in the treatment of early stage cervical cancer.
In China the ginseng root began to be used in medicine over 2000 years ago. Ginsenosides are the most important component isolated from ginseng. The authors investigated the effect of ginsenoside Rg1 on the spectrum of gene expression in the endothelial cells stimulated by TNF-alpha and further explored the potential molecular mechanism of endothelial protection by ginsenoside Rg1.
Keloid is an intricate lesion that is probably regulated by many genes. In this study, the authors used the technique of complementary DNA (cDNA) microarray to analyse abnormal gene expression in keloids and normal control skins.
Nowadays bone marrow represents the main source of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). We identified a new population of MSCs derived from human placenta and compared its biological characterization with bone marrow derived MSCs.
Polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN), one of the most important inflammatory cells, functions throughout the initiation, progression and resolution of inflammation. This study aimed at investigating the relationship between PMN apoptosis and the lung injury after chest impact trauma.
Retroviral vectors have been widely used to introduce foreign into various target cells in vitro, thus showing relatively high systemic delivery efficiency of various transgene products. The authors investigated the stability and efficiency of skeletal muscle-specific hybrid retroviral vectors in expression of human factor IX (FIX) in vitro and iv vivo.
Nurr1 is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of transcription factors. The objective of the present study was to identify novel splicing variants of the gene in neuronal and non-neuronal tissues and determine their functions.
There is a higher rate of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation in patients with multiple myeloma after an autologous stem cell transplantation, but no attention has been given thus far to a possible pathogenetic interplay between CMV and multiple myeloma. CMV can infect many kinds of cells, and CMV infection has been shown to inhibit apoptotic responses in several cell systems. In this study the authors investigated the alterations in apoptosis in the multiple myeloma cell line KM3 after infection with CMV and proposed a possible mechanism.
Repeated attacks of bronchial asthma lead to different degrees of airway remodeling, the mechanism of which is not yet clear. Some evidences indicate that it is related to the excessive expression of some growth promotion factors. Angiotensin II is a polypeptide that may be involved in airway remodeling. To evaluate its role in airway remodeling in asthma, we observed the effects of an angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist (valsartan) on the expression of collagen III, collagen V, and transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) mRNA and protein in the airway walls of sensitized rats.
The contractility of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) may play an important role in the pathogenesis of cirrhosis with portal hypertension. The aim of this study was to research the effects of octreotide, an analogue of somatostatin, on intracellular Ca2+ and on the expression of L-type voltage-operated calcium channels (L-VOCCs) in activated HSCs, and to try to survey the use of octreotide in treatment and prevention of cirrhosis with portal hypertension complications.
Batroxobin (BX), a serine protease used in defibrinogenation and thrombolysis, also has an effect on c-fos gene and growth factor. This study attempted to determine the effects of BX on the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and calcium metabolism.
We assessed whether the CaNa2 EDTA could improve the accumulation of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) and photosensitisation in HEp-2 cells as well as the depth of treatment of skin cancers on the topical 5-Aminolaevulinic acid (5-ALA) PDT.
Oligosaccharides in human milk may protect infants by improving the intestinal micro-flora and fermentation. This study was to investigate effects of infant formula milk consisting of galacto-oligosaccharide (GOS) on intestinal microbial populations and the fermentation characteristics in term infants in comparison with that of human milk.
A living fetus within the maternal uterus provides an example of allogene tolerance in mammals. Poria cocos Wolf is the main component of many Chinese medicinal combination drugs that have therapeutic effects on recurrent spontaneous abortion and that can maintain pregnancy until delivery. It was hypothesized that this herbal medicine can also prolong allograft survival after organ transplantation. Here, in an in vivo study, we report the anti-rejection effect of the ethanol extract of Poria cocos Wolf (EEPCW) in rats after cardiac allograft implantation.
Mutation and expression change of p21WAF1/CIP1 may play a role in the growth of osteosarcoma. This study was to investigate the expression of the p21WAF1/CIP1 gene in human osteosarcoma, p21WAF1/CIP1 gene DNA sequence change and their relationships with the phenotype and clinical prognosis.
Clinical trials have shown that calcium supplementation modestly decreases the risk of colorectal adenomas. However, few studies have examined the effect of calcium on the risk of different types of colorectal lesions or dietary determinants of this effect.
Patients receiving adjuvant tamoxifen whose tumors express high levels of both HER2/neu (HER2) and the estrogen receptor (ER) coactivator AIB1 often develop tamoxifen resistance. We used a breast cancer model system with high expression of AIB1 and HER2 to investigate the possible mechanisms underlying this resistance.
Reports suggest a relationship between circulating sex hormone levels and breast cancer risk, but genetic association studies have been inconclusive. We investigated the association between levels of sex hormones and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes coding for the enzymes that regulate them.
Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), a heterodimer comprising the oxygen-regulated subunit, HIF-1alpha, and HIF-1beta, mediates transcription of the gene for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Overexpression of HIF-1alpha is associated with tumor angiogenesis and tumor cell proliferation and invasion. We examined the effects of inhibiting HIF-1alpha activity on angiogenesis and human gastric cancer growth in vivo.
Bone sialoprotein (BSP) interacts separately with both matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2) and integrin alpha(v)beta3 and is overexpressed in many metastatic tumors. Its role in tumor biology, however, remains unclear. We investigated whether BSP enhances cancer cell invasiveness by forming a trimolecular complex with MMP-2 and cell-surface integrin alpha(v)beta3.
Polymorphisms in genes involved in cholesterol synthesis, absorption, and transport may affect statin efficacy.
Fast food consumption has increased greatly among children in recent years, in tandem with the obesity epidemic. Fast food tends to promote a positive energy balance and, for this reason, may result in weight gain. However, if fast food and obesity are causally related, the question arises of why some children who frequently eat fast food do not become overweight.
The high prevalence of acne vulgaris and its significant morbidity underscore the need for convenient, low-risk, and efficacious therapy. Treatment with various lasers has been reported to improve acne.
Little is known about how state-level driver licensure laws, such as in-person renewal, vision tests, road tests, and the frequency of license renewal relate to the older driver traffic fatality rate.
The prevalence of overweight and obesity has increased markedly in the last 2 decades in the United States.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac dysrhythmia in the United States. Whereas rare cases of familial AF have been reported, it is unknown if AF among unselected individuals is a heritable condition.
In the United States, 10% of the population was born outside of its borders. Immigrants and their children frequently return to visit their homeland, referred to as visiting friends and relatives (VFRs). They account for a disproportionately high volume of international travel.
Reflux nephropathy (RN) is a pathophysiological human model of reduced nephron reserve, due to loss of renal mass, but little information exists about the role of urinary endothelin-1 (uET-1) in this disease. The aim of this study was to assess the presence of uET-1-like-immunoreactivity (uET-1L) in RN patients, particularly if lateralized renal damage existed.
Gitelman's syndrome (GS) is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from inactivating mutations in the thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl co-transporter (NCCT) gene. To date, almost 90 mutations have been identified. It is possible that there is a population-specific distribution of mutations. In this study, we analysed mutations in the NCCT gene of seven Japanese patients with GS.
Sodium removal (NaR) may have a major impact on the survival of peritoneal dialysis patients. The dialysate/plasma sodium concentration ratio (D/P(Na)) is an indirect index of transcellular water transport by aquaporin channels, and thus of ultrafiltration. Sodium concentration can be assessed by means of flame photometry (F), and direct (D-ISE) or indirect ion-selective electrodes (I-ISE), but these methods have different properties. I-ISE is being used increasingly in clinical laboratories. The aim of this study was to evaluate NaR and D/P(Na) using the three different measurement methods.
Co-stimulation blockade has already been shown to induce transplantation tolerance in rodents, but until now has failed in large animal models. We therefore sought to investigate whether the addition of rapamycin to a co-stimulation blockade regimen could induce tolerance in baboon recipients of a renal allograft and to characterize the immunological characteristics of rejection.
The 'centre effect' has accounted for significant variation in renal allograft outcomes in the United States and Europe. To determine whether similar variation exists in Canada, we analysed mortality and graft failure (GF) rates among Canadian end-stage renal disease patients who received a renal allograft from 1988 to 1997 (n = 5082) across 20 transplant centres.
Anaemia is a common finding in patients with diabetes and constitutes an additional burden in patients with advancing age and comorbid vascular disease. This study examines the prevalence and predictors of anaemia in long-term outpatients with type 2 diabetes from three large clinical centres.
Severe long-standing hypertension is associated with an increased urinary protein excretion.
Cyclosporin A (CsA) induces gingival overgrowth (GO) in up to a quarter of CsA-treated renal transplant recipients. A short-term therapy with azithromycin effectively reduces GO, indicating a possible involvement of microorganisms in the pathogenesis of CsA-induced GO. We aimed to determine if there could be any relationship between infection with Chlamydia pneumoniae and GO pathogenesis. In addition, we determined the long-term persistence rate of C. pneumoniae infection in residual GO tissue when azithromycin treatment failed to eliminate GO.
The renal medulla is particularly sensitive to oxidant stress and to ischaemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). In organ transplantation, delayed graft function is an important problem and cold ischaemia is thought to be the most important factor in short- and long-term complications. Our aim was to study cold-induced damage in proximal tubular segments and renal medulla osmolite excretion during use of various preservation solutions, and to clarify the role of trimetazidine (TMZ) in limiting renal dysfunction.
Measurement of l-lactate in body fluids is an established clinical tool to identify disorders of cellular respiration. However, there is very little known about the clinical value of urinary lactate measurements. We investigated urinary lactate excretion in children with renal Fanconi syndrome.
Several studies have shown antifibrotic effects of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors as well as of angiotensin receptor 1 (AT1) antagonists, however, prospective trials with clinical end points comparing these effects do not exist. COL4A3-/- mice develop a non-hypertensive progressive renal fibrosis. We used this animal model to compare the potential of ACE inhibitor vs AT1 antagonist to prevent renal fibrosis irrespective of blood pressure-dependent involvement by the renin system.
The obese patient may be potentially at high risk for traditional percutaneous ultrasound-guided biopsy. The utility of transjugular kidney biopsy (TJKB) in this group of patients has not been established.
N-Acetylcysteine has been shown to protect against contrast nephropathy, although the mechanisms underlying such an effect are unclear. Surprisingly, studies have shown that post-radiocontrast renal function actually improves in chronic renal failure patients receiving N-acetylcysteine. However, there have been no studies investigating the cause of this improvement.
Sclerosing peritonitis (SP) and encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis (EPS) are serious complications of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Although we have shown previously that matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) is increased in peritoneal injury leading to SP/EPS, most of the MMP-2 in the dialysate drained from the peritoneal cavity was the latent form that was lacking activity. In the present study, we investigated whether MMP-2 causes peritoneal injury.
Osteoprotegerin (OPG) is a glycoprotein that inhibits osteoclast differentiation and activity. OPG-deficient mice develop severe osteoporosis and medial arterial calcification. The expression of OPG is detected in early atherosclerotic lesions in non-uraemic patients. We examined whether serum OPG is associated with aortic calcification in haemodialysis patients.
End-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients are prescribed numerous medications. The United States Renal Data System (USRDS) reported on medication prescribing patterns in 1998. Since then, several new medications, treatment guidelines and recommendations have been introduced. The objective was to analyse and compare haemodialysis (HD) patient medication prescribing patterns between the Dialysis Clinic, Inc. (DCI) database and the USRDS report.
From a diagnostic point of view it would be important to learn more about the relationship between the immune responses underlying glomerulonephritis and the patterns of glomerular lesions. A murine model of anti-GBM glomerulonephritis in which inflammation is driven by delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) has been studied extensively. The aim of this study was to uncover histological features that might be specific for anti-GBM glomerulonephritis driven by a humoral immune response.
Although the incidence of sudden cardiac death (SCD) is high among haemodialysis (HD) patients, there are few papers available on this topic. The aim of this study on a single-centre HD population observed over a 10 year period was to identify patient- and HD-related specific factors that might be associated with a higher risk of SCD.
Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) is an autosomal dominant disease caused by a point mutation in the gene encoding transthyretin, which is secreted by the liver. Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) has been proposed to prevent disease progression. Little is known about long-term changes in renal function and lesions after OLT.
Neuropsychological (NP) performance after kidney transplantation (TX) has received little attention. This study compared NP functioning between dialysis and transplant patients and between living-related donor (LRD) and cadaver (CAD) transplant recipients. The association between immunosuppressive medication and NP outcomes was also examined.
Inflammation and malnutrition are common findings in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). We hypothesized that in inflamed and malnourished patients, respiratory and peripheral muscle dysfunction may have significant consequences on pulmonary function. The aim of this study was to investigate possible associations between pulmonary function and inflammation and malnutrition in patients with CKD.
Uraemic pruritus (UP) is a serious symptom of chronic dialysis patients and patients with end-stage renal disease. UP causes skin damage, discomfort, sleeping disorders and diminished quality of life. Since UP is considered to be in part an immune-mediated inflammatory process, immunosuppressive drugs like tacrolimus may be beneficial.
Tubulointerstitial fibrosis is an important component of diabetic nephropathy, which is characterized by increased expression of interstitial extracellular matrix components and aberrant expression of the basement membrane component collagen type IV. The present study examined the effect of high ambient glucose and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) on collagen secretion by human renal fibroblasts and proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs).
Macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) is the principal factor for survival of monocytes and macrophages that play an important role in allograft rejection. We studied M-CSF serum levels during successful renal transplantation and acute graft rejection.
Chronic renal failure is characterized by oxidant stress, resulting in part from increased reactive oxygen species production by neutrophils. Plasma concentrations of methylglyoxal are increased in uraemia. Methylglyoxal activates p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in endothelial cells. Activation of p38 MAPK in neutrophils enhances reactive oxygen species production through exocytosis of intracellular storage granules. We tested the hypothesis that methylglyoxal enhances reactive oxygen species production by activating p38 MAPK in neutrophils.
Myeloperoxidase-specific anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic auto-antibody (MPO-ANCA) has been a useful diagnostic marker in systemic vasculitis with crescentic glomerulonephritis (CrGN). It is highly suspected that the antigenic enzyme MPO released from activated neutrophils is involved in these lesions. We evaluated the relationship between neutrophil functions including peripheral neutrophil counts and renal lesions in SCG/Kj mice as a model of ANCA-associated CrGN and vasculitis.
Spiral or helical arterial blood flow patterns have been widely observed in both animals and humans. The absence of spiral flow has been associated with carotid arterial disease. The aim of this study was to detect the presence of aortic spiral flow using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to evaluate the relationship of the presence of spiral aortic flow with renal arterial disease and renal function in the follow-up of patients with suspected renal atheromatous disease.
Blood flow (Qa) measurements are an important step in the surveillance protocol of haemodialysis vascular access (VA). The glucose pump test (GPT) is a new test for Qa measurement based on the dilution of a constant glucose infusion. The aim of this study is to verify the clinical accuracy of GPT in a graft surveillance protocol with sequential Qa measurements.
Microalbuminuria is known to be a harbinger of serious complications in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Since medical intervention at the onset of microalbuminuria can be critical in reducing these adverse outcomes, it is widely agreed that type 2 diabetic patients should be screened for microalbuminuria. The purpose of the present study is to evaluate Micral test strips in conjunction with a urine specific gravity determination as a rapid and accurate method for detecting microalbuminuria in type 2 diabetic patients.
The prevalence of sleep problems (insomnia, restless legs syndrome, periodic limb movements in sleep and sleep apnoea) has been shown to be high in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and might contribute to impaired quality of life in this population.
Late nephrology referral has been associated with adverse outcomes among patients with end-stage renal disease; however, its relationship to mortality is unclear. We examined the impact of timing of nephrology care relative to initiation of dialysis on mortality after initiation of dialysis.
The majority of patients with end-stage renal disease on dialysis are hyperphosphataemic. Lanthanum carbonate has been shown to be a highly effective phosphate binder in pre-clinical studies. A 4-week, open-label, dose-titration trial was conducted to assess the ability of lanthanum carbonate to control phosphate levels in patients with chronic renal failure.
Essential tremor (ET) may be misdiagnosed as idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). In neurodegenerative diseases, structural imaging, such as CT or MRI, is of limited value for differentiating parkinsonian syndromes since structural changes are often only evident by the time the disease is far advanced. Most cases of symptomatic parkinsonism are vascular parkinsonism, but PD may coexist. The differential diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (LBD) is often difficult.
Hormonal and metabolic factors related to pregnancy itself are considered to increase the likelihood of seizure recurrence. If so, we should expect a similar evolution of epilepsy in a subsequent pregnancy. We investigated differences in evolution of non-gestational epilepsy in each pregnancy of women suffering from epilepsy.
We have previously shown that the learning curve for laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGBP) is approximately 75 cases. Patients have worse outcomes during the learning curve. Our aim was to evaluate the impact of fellowship training on outcomes during a surgeon's early experience with LRYGBP.
Prognostic models are essential for evaluating variations in cancer mortality statistics. While cancer stage is the most widely accepted and commonly used predictor of survival for cancer, electronic claims databases contain large amounts of information on cancer patients. Previous studies have used Medicare databases and tumor registry information from the Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results data sets to evaluate variations in outcomes for older cancer patients. We evaluated if similar analytic efforts could be carried out with readily available data sets for colorectal cancer patients of all ages who received care at a single hospital during the 1990s.
Accurate assessments of pain help healthcare professionals to identify its source and manage it appropriately. Pain in cognitively impaired older adults is difficult to assess and this can result in poor management and outcomes. In response to the vulnerability of this patient group, researchers have produced a variety of tools for pain assessment in cognitively impaired older adults.
The progressive increase in population aging, specially evident in Spain, remark the importance to estimate the volume and the prevalence trends of dependency in the 65 years and over Spanish population.
In cohort or longitudinal studies, subjects are recruited some time after the beginning of the problem, as in HIV infection. The aim of this paper is to show several imputation techniques of the beginning of follow up and evaluate its use in the framework of a study of HIV progression.
To Study the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) and all-cause mortality in a cohort of men followed during 28 years, and their association with serum cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, glycemia, cigarette smoking and body mass index measured at baseline.
Despite a greater incidence of ischemic heart disease among individuals over age 65, most cardiovascular research has been focused on the middle-aged adult population. To date no cohort study on this population have been made in Spain. This study is aimed as reviewing the role and methodology of cohort studies as an epidemiological tool absolutely essential for researching the prevalence and incidence of angina, AMI, stroke and the major cardiovascular risk factors.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the average growth rate (AGR) in 2 to 10 years old children (n = 259) belonging to rural families from the municipality of Marinilla (Colombia). The results will be taking into account in order to define public health polices aimed to improve the life quality conditions in rural communities.
This study is aimed at describing the readmission phenomenon for heart failure patients and identifying some of their related clinical factors by means of a follow-up study with administrative data.
Prolonged exposure to alcohol blunts the response of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis to various stressors, including the systemic injection of a lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We previously showed that decreased synthesis of the hypothalamic peptides corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and vasopressin (VP) played a central role in this phenomenon. However, the mechanisms that lead to decreased hypothalamic neuronal activity have not been identified. In the present work, we tested the hypothesis that alcohol decreased signals that are elicited by LPS and that stimulate hypothalamic CRF and VP synthesis, namely nitric oxide (NO) and the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6).
Trait anger has been identified as a risk factor for alcohol-related aggression. However, to develop a more accurate risk profile, it is necessary to examine the interactive relations between trait anger and other key personality variables. The present study examined the influence of anger control on alcohol-related aggression.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) has been hypothesized to be one of the main regulators of the stress response observed during alcohol withdrawal. The CRF receptor subtypes seem to have a differential role in the regulation of stress-related behavior. Given the behavioral characterization of these receptors, the objective of the following experiments was to characterize the role of CRF2 receptors in the interaction between alcohol and stress by examining the effects of CRF2 receptor activation in the behavioral stress response and ethanol self-administration during early ethanol withdrawal in dependent rats.
Flavorant-fading procedures can initiate and maintain oral ethanol intake in rodents. The present study developed a similar procedure to achieve controlled and behaviorally relevant levels of ethanol intake in monkeys.
Sensitivity to several ethanol effects increases during ontogeny, perhaps in part because of a notable decline in acute tolerance. In contrast, rapid tolerance to ethanol-induced sedation emerges slowly during ontogeny. This study tested the hypothesis that ontogenetic differences in glutamate and/or gamma-aminobutyric acid systems influence tolerance expression.
Preweanling rats detect ethanol (175 mg/100 ml) in maternal milk when the dam is moderately intoxicated. Repeated experiences with the intoxicated dam facilitate subsequent recognition of ethanol's chemosensory attributes and promote ethanol-related memories with a negative hedonic content. This memory has been attributed to the infant's acquired association between ethanol's chemosensory attributes and its disruptive effects on maternal care. In this study, infant and adolescent ethanol intake patterns were analyzed as a function of prior interactions, during early infancy, with their intoxicated dams.
Genetically altered mice have been used to examine gene contributions to ethanol phenotypes. Recently, mice with a targeted deletion of the delta subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor have been generated. These mice display decreased sensitivity to neuroactive steroids and altered responses to some behavioral effects of ethanol. Given the application of drug discrimination to characterize receptor-mediated stimulus effects of ethanol and given the data showing altered ethanol responses in mice lacking the delta subunit of the GABAA receptor, these mice were characterized in an ethanol-discrimination procedure. It has been shown that neurosteroids will substitute for the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol, and this study aimed to determine whether the substitution patterns of neuroactive steroids or other GABAA-positive modulators would be altered in these mice.
High-risk alcohol use among college students is associated with accidents, partner violence, unwanted sexual encounters, tobacco use, and performance issues. The identification and treatment of high-risk drinking students is a priority for many college campuses and college health centers. The goal of this study was to test the psychometric properties of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) in college students.
Data on risks and benefits associated with drinking patterns provide the scientific basis for moderate, low-risk drinking guidelines. Illustrated are methods to investigate and adjust for heterogeneity in relations between three-dimensional drinking patterns and 41 alcohol problems assessed among current regular drinkers in the 1988 National Health Interview Survey.
Assessment of high-risk drinking in the general population can be problematic: questionnaire-based instruments may carry the problem of random or systematic recall bias, and the effectiveness of screening of single biomarkers has been shown to be insufficient. In this article, we analyze the alcohol intake/biomarker relationship of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), and erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume (MCV). Specific aims were (1) screening effectiveness comparison of GGT, CDT, and MCV in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and positive (PPVs) and negative predictive values (NPVs) and the effect of covariates on these measures; (2) the comparison of summary measures for the effectiveness of screening: the receiver characteristic curve (ROC) and the area under the ROC; and (3) to answer the question of which covariates effect which biomarkers and whether accounting for relevant covariates increases the prognostic value of biomarkers to levels that allow for application in the general population.
Previous work from this laboratory showed that prenatal alcohol exposure at approximately 100 mg/dl from embryonic day (E)7 to early midgestation reduced the number and retarded the migration of serotonin (5-HT) neurons in the raphe nuclei in C57BL/6 mice. In this study, we report that the deficit of 5-HT neurons found in midgestation persisted on E18 and into young adulthood.
Increasing evidence suggests that drinking pattern may have powerful implications for health; however, very few studies have focused on the association between drinking pattern and risk of alcoholic liver damage. This study was aimed at examining the association of gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase with current alcohol consumption and with some aspects of drinking pattern (e.g., drinking frequency during the week and in relation to food consumption).
Investigations have shown that chronic ethanol exposure results in selective alterations in levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A and NMDA receptor subunits. We previously reported significant sex differences in these chronic ethanol-induced adaptations. Because we have more recently found important sex differences in timing for the development of and recovery from ethanol dependence, we wanted to ascertain whether there were associations between overt expression of withdrawal and neuroadaptations at the level of GABAA and NMDA receptors.
A series of illnesses occurred in Earlimart, CA on November 13, 1999 following a metam-sodium sprinkler application to a potato field on the southern edge of the town.
Inhalation of fine particulate is hypothesized to increase risk of heart disease events.
Understanding job tasks and estimating occupational exposures is difficult for self-employed or autonomous workers, who tend to be dispersed, with no fixed workplace, employment records, or historical exposure measurements.
Falls are a leading cause of injury among older adults. As the workforce demographics shift to an older population, the dearth of information on occupational falls among older adults must be addressed.
Data from telephone interviews with New York farmers and farm residents were used to study the prevalence and risk factors of symptoms that could be related to asthma and allergies.
The call center industry is one of the most expansive labor market sectors in Sweden today. The purpose of this study was to investigate the working conditions and symptoms among employees at a call center in Sweden.
The International Chemical Workers Union Council (ICWUC) Center for Worker Health and Safety Education in Cincinnati, Ohio, trains workers to protect themselves from hazards due to chemical spills and other chemical exposures. We evaluated whether the ICWUC Hazardous Waste Worker Training Program affects the attitudes and post-training activities, of trained union workers.
Indoor air problems at workplaces are often exceedingly complex. Technical questions are interrelated with the dynamics of the work community, and the cooperation and interaction skills of the parties involved in the problem solving process are also put to the test. The objective of our study was to analyze the process of managing and solving indoor air problems from a psychosocial perspective.
Reduced endothelial-dependent arterial dilatation (EDAD) has been suggested as an early marker of arteriosclerosis, since it has been reported to correlate with known cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors. It is unclear, however, whether gender plays a mediating or a moderating role in these relationships. The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of gender on EDAD in youth at risk for CVD.
Utilization of medical care services has been used as a surrogate for outcome of patient compliance with treatment regimens. Antihypertensive treatment status and selection of drug agents may influence medical utilization. The purpose of this study was to determine the association between medically untreated hypertension and treated hypertension according to class of antihypertensive agent with the rate of hospitalization.
Daily self-monitored blood glucose testing is recommended for patients with insulin-treated type 2 diabetes. However, most patients do not test frequently enough for optimal glycemic control. Less frequent testing may be sufficient for assessing glycemic control among stable patients as well as improving patient compliance. The study objective was to evaluate the weekly contribution of glucose readings to hemoglobin (Hb)A1c during an 8-week period of intensified self-monitored blood glucose testing.
Lupus nephritis has emerged as a major factor in the overall survival of patients and may help to explain the poor prognosis associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in black patients.
Differentiation between pyopneumothorax and lung abscess can be difficult but has important therapeutic consequences. The role of chest ultrasonography in this issue remains undetermined. Sonographic features of hydropneumothorax and/or pyopneumothorax are characteristic and not difficult to recognize. In this study, the authors evaluate the usefulness of a panel of sonographic findings characteristic of hydropneumothorax in distinguishing pyopneumothorax from lung abscess.
Mitral annulus calcification (MAC) or aortic valve sclerocalcification (AVSC) is common with aging and associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) in Caucasians. This study was performed to determine whether MAC or AVSC is also associated with, and has a power to predict, CAD in Koreans as in Caucasians.
Most animal studies on myocardial infarction (MI) have used open-chest models with direct surgical coronary artery ligation, which imply local as well as generalized side effects of major surgery. Some closed-chest models of MI have been established, mainly using catheterization techniques with coronary artery embolization, balloon occlusion, and intracoronary injection of thrombogenic agents. The aim of this study was to develop a closed-chest technique of chronic coronary artery occlusion at a selected location with subsequent thrombus formation without use of balloon inflation or thrombotic chemical agents.
A 'thin' fibrous cap atheroma is the typical morphological characteristic of vulnerable plaque. Yet the very pathological studies that have provided these descriptions have also shown the actual prediction of plaque rupture to be rather less exact. Other relevant characteristics must be involved in the mechanisms of plaque rupture--blood pressure loading (P) and the material properties of the soft atheromatous core--as predictors of the distribution of the peak circumferential stress (PCS) locations.
Patients with refractory angina pectoris have severe symptoms despite optimal medication, but are not suitable for revascularisation. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has been used for treating refractory angina pectoris since 1985. The efficacy of SCS has been proven by randomised controlled trials and follow-up studies have shown that SCS is a safe treatment. The objective of the current study was to retrospectively analyse the clinical outcomes and cost-benefit of SCS in patients with refractory angina pectoris.
Although lipid-lowering therapy affects the luminal size of atherosclerotic coronary arteries the role of vascular remodeling has not been systematically studied.
Behavioural and psychological disturbances occur in up to 90% of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), have a substantial impact on both patients and caregivers, and are often associated with the decision to institutionalise patients. Galantamine (Reminyl) is a dual-acting cholinergic treatment that improves cognitive and functional performance, delays the onset of behavioural symptoms and decreases behaviour-associated caregiver distress.
Ezetimibe is a cholesterol absorption inhibitor which decreases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in patients with hypercholesterolemia. This study investigated the potential for pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interactions between ezetimibe and lovastatin.
Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) augments diastolic and reduces systolic blood pressures. Enhanced external counterpulsation has been shown to improve blood flow in various organ systems. Beneficial effects on skin perfusion might allow EECP to be used in patients with skin malperfusion problems. This study was performed to assess acute effects of EECP on superficial skin blood flow, transdermal oxygen and carbon dioxide pressures.
Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is caused by mutations in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene and the gene encoding apolipoprotein B-100, affecting one in 500 individuals.
Small intestinal and oro-cecal transit time (OCTT) is determined for clinical diagnostics and research purposes. Experimental protocols used vary with respect to the inclusion of a subsequent meal during the test period. This study was conducted to elucidate whether the ingestion of a subsequent meal during the test period influences the OCTT of the test meal.
Helicobacter pylori and aspirin both induce gastric epithelial apoptosis. However, the apoptosis-inducing mechanism of aspirin is still unknown.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) regulates lipid metabolism upon activation by ligands. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha may play a role in the pathogenesis of fatty liver disease. The aim of this study was to assess the PPARalpha expression pattern and mitochondrial/peroxisomal enzyme activities in response to high fat diet (HFD) and clofibrate, a well known PPARalpha ligand.
This controlled, experimental study was designed to assess the effects of intratracheal and intravenous methylene blue on reperfusion lung injury following superior mesenteric artery clamping/unclamping.
Preeclampsia has been shown to constitute a state of sympathetic overactivity. However, it remains unclear if the sympathetic activity precedes preeclampsia or represents only a secondary phenomenon. To further investigate this issue, we performed a prospective study in pregnant women considered to be at increased risk for preeclampsia owing to preeclampsia during a preceding pregnancy.
The presence of neutrophils among epithelial cells is one of the major features of the inflammation in Crohn's disease, and has been used to indicate disease activity. The survival of neutrophils outside the blood vessels is limited and their longevity is influenced by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), which probably reduces neutrophil apoptosis.
The ability of beta blockers to improve left ventricular function has been demonstrated, but data on the effects on cardiac remodelling are limited.
Atrial en-face reconstructions are commonly used to assess mitral valve morphology in three dimensional (3D) echocardiography but may miss important abnormalities.
Left ventricular function changes in the postmenopausal state. However, there are conflicting reports about the effects of oestrogen on left ventricular diastolic function in postmenopausal women.
Pre-eclampsia is a multisystem disorder, peculiar to and frequent in human pregnancy. It remains a leading cause of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Hemodynamic disturbances are the most prominent features of the syndrome.
The polymorphic angiotensinogen (AGT) gene is one of the most promising candidates for blood pressure (BP) regulation and essential hypertension.
Pulse wave velocity (PWV), an index of arterial wall stiffness, is modulated by blood pressure (BP). Whether heart rate (HR) is also a modulator of PWV is controversial. Recent research involving mainly patients with high aortic PWV have found either no change or a positive correlation between the two. Given that PWV is increasingly being measured in cardiovascular studies, the relationship between HR and PWV should be known in patients with preserved arterial wall elasticity.
Hyperuricaemia and reactive oxygen species have recently been associated with essential hypertension. Xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) produces urate and, in its oxidase isoform, reactive oxygen species also. Our previous studies indicated that hypertension-prone rat strains have greater renal XOR activity than their normotensive counterparts, and that dietary sodium modifies renal XOR activity.
Baroreflex and chemoreflex mechanisms play an important role in the dynamic adjustments of circulation and ventilation during daily life. Recently, we have observed atrophy and marked fibrosis in carotid glomus (CG) from old patients with carotid atherosclerosis who died following stroke. However, a possible limitation to interpretation of the results in that study was the superposition of arterial hypertension, atherosclerosis and aging in the patients. Taking this into account, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were used in order to study the CG in an experimental model with only hemodynamic stress.
Slow, controlled breathing has been shown by cross-spectral techniques to potentiate arterial baroreflex control of heart rate. However, crucial aspects of the effects of slow breathing on the arterial baroreflex remain unsettled, namely whether the major function of the arterial baroreflex (i.e. the control of blood pressure) is also potentiated and whether baroreflex function is differentially modulated according to the age of the individual.
Carotid sinus syndrome (CSS) is a common cause of syncope in older persons. There appears to be a high prevalence of carotid sinus hypersensitivity (CSH) in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) but not in Alzheimer's disease.
Genetic polymorphisms of APO-E, homocysteine, and the IL-1 gene cluster (IL-1A, IL-1B, receptor antagonist IL-1RN) are associated with sporadic Alzheimer's disease and may involve interdependent pathways of neuronal toxicity.
Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been used historically in the treatment of cerebral palsy (CP). We investigated the efficacy of acupuncture in improving the motor function of children with CP.
CADASIL is an inherited small vessel disease related to Notch3 gene mutations.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and oral submucous fibrosis (OSF), which are highly associated with areca use, are prevalent in most Asian countries. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are superfamily of metal-dependent proteolytic enzymes, mediating the degradation of extracellular matrix. Insertion/deletion (-1607 2G--&gt;1G) polymorphism has been described in the promoter region of the human matrix metalloproteinases-1 (MMP-1) genes, which cause an alteration in the transcriptional activity. This genotype is associated with risks of cancer genesis and metastasis. In this paper, we studied the relationship between such genotype and areca-associated oral diseases.
Buccal squamous cell carcinoma (BSCC) is the most frequently occurring oral cancer in Asians due to the popularity of areca use in this area. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the survival of areca-associated BSCC associated with multiple molecular markers.
This study attempts to remedy the situation that no morphological studies exit of tongue piercing.
It has been demonstrated that cyclosporin A (CyA) blocks the immune system, acts on cytoskeleton and stimulates the production of extracellular matrix (ECM) and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1). This cytokine, such as transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), induces deposition of glycosaminoglycans (GAG), proteoglycans and collagen fibres in the ECM.
Odontogenic cysts (OCs) present distinct evolution and clinical behavior. This study was performed in order to investigate if some components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) may drive these differences.
To clarify the roles of rat sarcoma (Ras)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway in oncogenesis and cytodifferentiation of odontogenic tumors, K-Ras gene status and expression of Ras, Raf1, MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK)1, and ERK1/2 proteins were analyzed in ameloblastomas as well as in tooth germs.
Qat chewing is a common habit in Yemen. Various studies demonstrated clear effects of this habit on the systemic organs of the human body. The lack of studies, however, on the effects of this habit on oral mucosa was the major motive of this study.
The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) contributes to hypertension and nephropathy. Until recently, aldosterone either has not been considered or has been considered a relatively minor component of the process-a contribution that could be negated with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition or angiotensin receptor blockade.
Primary vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is a hereditary disorder characterized by the retrograde flow of urine into the ureters and kidneys. It affects about 1% of the young children and is thus one of the most common hereditary diseases. Its associated nephropathy is an important cause of end-stage renal failure in children and adults. Recent studies indicate that genetic ablation of mouse uroplakin (UP) III gene, which encodes a 47 kD urothelial-specific integral membrane protein forming urothelial plaques, causes VUR and hydronephrosis.
Mice that are homozygous for the kidney disease (kd) mutation are apparently healthy for the first 8 weeks of life, but spontaneously develop a severe form of interstitial nephritis that progresses to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) by 4 to 8 months of age. By testing for linkage to microsatellite markers, we previously localized the kd gene to a YAC/BAC contig.
Several examinations have been performed to identify the genes involved in chronic renal failure using 5/6 nephrectomized rats. Recently, many systematic techniques for examining molecular expression have been developed. They might also be effective in elucidating the molecular mechanism of progressive renal failure. In this study, digital expression profiling was carried out to construct a subtractive mRNA expression database for the 5/6 nephrectomized kidney.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the main cause of death in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. It has been suggested that inflammation plays a key role in the development of both atherosclerosis and malnutrition (MIA), a combination of complications associated with poor outcome. Although plasma levels of adiponectin, a recently discovered anti-inflammatory and antiatherogenic adipocytokine, are markedly elevated in ESRD, gene expression of adiponectin (ApM1) has not been analyzed in ESRD patients.
Growth retardation of chronic renal failure is associated with alterations in the growth plate suggestive of a disturbed chondrocyte maturation process and abnormal vascular invasion at the chondro-osseous interphase. Chondromodulin I (ChM-I) is a potent cartilage-specific angiostatic factor. Its pattern of expression in the uremic rat growth plate is unknown. Persistence of ChM-I synthesis and/or imbalance between ChM-I and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expressions might play a role in the alterations of uremic growth plate.
Although the etiology of childhood nephrotic syndrome is unclear, there is evidence to suggest an important role for T cells in the pathogenesis. Steroid resistance is considered a poor prognostic sign but the mechanism of the resistance is unknown. The study examined the potential role of T-cell nuclear transcription factors in the steroid resistance.
The plasminogen-plasmin system has potential beneficial or deleterious effects in the context of renal fibrosis. Recent studies have implicated plasminogen activators or their inhibitors in this process.
Tissue damage at the time of organ transplantation has a negative impact on the subsequent success of the procedure, both in the immediate and longer term. Hypothermia is the principal element used to prolong organ viability ex vivo, but paradoxically also induces cellular edema through inhibition of energy-dependent adenosine triphosphatases (ATPases). This induces an electrolyte imbalance that leads to fluid influx and cell swelling. It is important, therefore, that improvements are made in the preservation of ischemic organs to reduce this injury.
Cell culture of podocytes has become an indispensable tool in the study of podocyte biology. To date, however, podocyte cell lines with stable expression of the crucial slit diaphragm protein nephrin and localization of nephrin to cell-cell contacts are not available.
Type IV collagen in basement membranes is a ligand for the receptor tyrosine kinase discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1). DDR1 is expressed in renal cells and regulates cell adhesion and proliferation ex vivo. The interaction between type IV collagen and cell surface receptors is believed important for normal renal function as well as significant in chronic renal diseases and we therefore analyzed mice with a targeted deletion of DDR1.
Over-expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) contributes greatly to fibrotic kidney disease. The activator protein-1 (AP-1) inhibitor curcumin, a polyphenolic compound derived from Curcuma longa, has been shown to reduce collagen accumulation in experimental pulmonary fibrosis. Here, we investigate curcumin's ability to modulate TGF-beta's profibrotic actions in vitro.
IgA nephropathy is the most common form of glomerulonephritis worldwide. We previously reported a novel form of glomerulonephritis with glomerular IgA deposits following methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infection. We investigated the role of S. aureus related antigens in the immunopathogenesis of IgA nephropathy by producing several monoclonal antibodies against S. aureus surface antigens and determining the epitopes of deposited antigens in patients with IgA nephropathy.
Primary collapsing glomerulopathy recurs postransplant, raising the possibility of circulating factors implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Parenteral iron administration is a mainstay of anemia management in renal disease patients. However, concerns of potential iron toxicity persist. Thus, this study was conducted to more fully gauge iron toxicologic profiles and potential determinants thereof.
The molecular identification and characterization of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive family of P2 receptors is comparatively new. There are two main subgroups, each with several subtypes and widespread tissue distribution, including the kidney. A unique member of the P2X subgroup of P2 receptors is the ATP-gated ion channel P2X(7), which on activation can cause cell blebbing, cytokine release, and cell death by necrosis or apoptosis. We report expression of this receptor in normal rat kidney and in two chronic models of glomerular injury: streptozotocin-induced (STZ) diabetes and ren-2 transgenic (TGR) hypertension.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is expressed in the kidney. The receptor plays a major role in gentamicin ototoxicity. We assessed the role of the renal NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2C in a model of gentamicin nephrotoxicity.
To examine a subclass-effect relationship and a dose-effect relationship of autoantibodies in the rat antiglomerular basement membrane (GBM) antibody-induced glomerulonephritis (anti-GBM nephritis) model, we injected homologous monoclonal antibodies against the NC1 domains of rat type IV collagen into inbred Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats.
Statins are increasingly recognized as mediators of direct cellular effects independent of their lipid lowering capacity. Therefore, the time and concentration dependence of various statin-mediated cellular alterations was compared in renal mesangial cells.
Cisplatin and its analogs oxaliplatin and carboplatin are widely used antitumor drugs. Nephrotoxicity is a common and relevant adverse effect that occurs especially in cisplatin therapy. Cellular and molecular mechanisms of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity are not completely understood. The nephrotoxicity of platinum complexes was evaluated by a new in vitro system that utilizes the high Trans Epithelial Electrical Resistance (TEER) of the C7 clone of the MDCK (Madin-Darby canine kidney) cells. By means of this assay system we addressed the question whether the side of application of renal epithelia influences platinum complex toxicity.
Congenital urinary tract obstruction is a common cause of renal insufficiency in the neonate and during infancy. Recently, we demonstrated that ureteral obstruction in adult rats is associated with reduction in the abundance of renal aquaporins (AQPs) and renal sodium transporters, which paralleled an impaired urinary concentrating capacity.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) may have an increased renal production of dopamine. LAT2 promotes L-DOPA renal uptake, and this may determine the rate of dopamine synthesis. The present study evaluated L-DOPA inward and outward transfer in immortalized renal proximal tubular epithelial cells of SHR and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY).
We have demonstrated that ouabain causes dose- and time-dependent decreases in (86)Rb uptake in porcine proximal tubular (LLC-PK1) cells. The present study addresses the molecular mechanisms involved in this process.
Aldosterone has been known for many years to increase sodium (Na(+)) reabsorption by the distal nephron. The present in vitro experiments investigated the effect of the hormone on calcium (Ca(2+)) transport by the luminal membrane of the rabbit nephron, independent of any systemic influence.
The epithelial cells lining the renal proximal tubule have been shown to be the primary cellular targets where mercuric ions gain entry, accumulate, and induce pathologic effects in vivo. Recent data have implicated at least one of the organic anion transport systems in the basolateral uptake of inorganic mercury (Hg(2+)).
Nephrotic syndrome is associated with hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and marked elevations of plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). Hypertriglyceridemia in nephrotic syndrome is accompanied by increased hepatic fatty acid synthesis, elevated triglyceride secretion, as well as lipoprotein lipase, VLDL-receptor, and hepatic triglyceride lipase deficiencies, which lead to impaired clearance of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. Acyl CoA: diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) is a microsomal enzyme that joins acyl CoA to 1, 2-diacylglycerol to form triglyceride. Two distinct DGATs (DGAT-1 and DGAT2) have recently been identified in the liver and other tissues. The present study tested the hypothesis that the reported increase in hepatic triglyceride secretion in nephrotic syndrome may be caused by up-regulation of DGAT.
Superoxide (O(2) (-)) has been shown to augment tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) both in vivo and in vitro by scavenging nitric oxide (NO) in the macula densa (MD). We hypothesized that in addition to this mechanism O(2) (-) potentiates TGF by acting directly on the afferent arteriole (Af-Art).
While increased plasma cholesterol is a well-established cardiovascular risk factor in the general population, this is not so among patients with chronic renal disease. We hypothesized that the transvascular lipoprotein transport, in addition to the lipoprotein concentration in plasma, determines the degree of atherosclerosis among patients with chronic renal disease.
Essential hypertension affects more than 25% of the world's population. Genetic, physiologic, and epidemiologic studies provide clues to its origins, but a clear understanding has been elusive. Recent experimental and clinical studies have implicated uric acid in the onset of essential hypertension.
Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine with immunosuppressive properties. We evaluated the influence of G-1082A polymorphism in the IL-10 gene promoter, which has been associated with modified IL-10 production, on the two most common forms of primary glomerulonephritis: IgA nephropathy (IgAN) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS).
Iron deficiency and anemia are commonly encountered in patients with autoimmune diseases undergoing immune apheresis. This makes erythropoietin and iron substitution necessary in most patients. However, intravenous iron therapy may result in an increase of potentially toxic nontransferrin-bound iron.
Circulating homocysteine, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD), is often elevated in chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. Little is known about the risk of elevated homocysteine associated with less advanced renal insufficiency in the community.
The cost of care for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is known to be high. The factors responsible for higher ESRD cost develop during chronic kidney disease (CKD), where the data on distribution of cost are limited.
The T allele of the G protein beta3 subunit (GNB3) C825T polymorphism has been associated with increased signal transduction, increased activity of the kidney Na+/H+ exchanger, and also with late-onset essential hypertension. Hypertension is a strong independent risk factor for progression in IgA nephropathy (IgAN).
The impact of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and disease on long-term outcome after kidney transplantation is still unsettled.
Total homocysteine (tHcy) and advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of vascular damage. This study aimed to investigate whether elevated serum levels of the AGEs pentosidine, N(epsilon)-carboxymethyllysine (CML) and imidazolone; tHcy, cystathionine, methylmalonic acid (MMA), and 2-methylcitric acid (2-MCA), as well as C-reactive protein (CRP), are related to a higher risk for cardiovascular events.
Patients with nephrotic syndrome have the highest lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] concentrations known. Lp(a) is an low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-like particle consisting of 45% cholesterol. The usual methods to determine LDL cholesterol do not distinguish between cholesterol derived from LDL and Lp(a) and are thus the net result of cholesterol levels from both lipoproteins. High Lp(a) concentrations therefore significantly contribute to the measured or calculated LDL cholesterol levels. Since statins have no influence on Lp(a) levels, it can be expected that the LDL cholesterol-lowering effect of statins may be diminished in patients who have a pronounced elevation of Lp(a) levels accompanied by only moderate elevations of LDL cholesterol.
It has been widely supposed that high dose and high flux hemodialysis would affect the quality as well as the length of life of patients treated by maintenance hemodialysis. The HEMO Study examined changes in health-related quality of life as a secondary study outcome. Specific hypotheses were that study interventions would affect physical functioning, vitality, Short Form-36 Health Survey (SF-36) physical and mental component summary scores, symptoms and problems associated with kidney disease, and sleep quality.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is highly prevalent in men with renal disease. The clearance of sildenafil citrate, a highly effective oral treatment for ED, is decreased in men with severe renal insufficiency, but the pharmacokinetic and hemodynamic profiles during maintenance hemodialysis in men with end-stage renal disease have not been studied.
This study was performed to assess renal transplant patient preferences with respect to the acceptance of an additional mortality risk induced by immunosuppressive therapy in order to prevent graft loss in case of acute rejection.
Improvements in immunosuppressive regimens have significantly enhanced patient and graft survival in renal transplant recipients. However, susceptibility to neoplastic disorders is increased as a consequence of prolonged immunosuppression. Available data pertaining to cancer risks in renal transplant recipients have been inconsistent, and much of it is derived from international studies, which may not be truly representative of the United States population.
Previous nonrandomized studies suggest that prophylactic repair of hemodialyisis arteriovenous (AV) graft stenosis reduces thrombosis rates and increases cumulative graft survival. The present study is a randomized trial comparing prophylactic repair of AV graft stenosis with repair at the time of thrombosis.
Artificial neural networks (ANN) represent a promising alternative to classical statistical and mathematic methods to solve multidimensional nonlinear problems. The aim of the study was to verify, by comparing the performance of ANN with that of experienced nephrologists, whether ANN are useful tools in hemodialysis to predict the follow-up (=1 month after the observation used for the prediction) dietary protein intake (PCR), and whether their performance is influenced by the size of the population and by the data pool used to built the model.
Although peritoneal dialysis (PD) is a widely accepted form of renal replacement therapy (RRT), concerns remain regarding the bioincompatible nature of standard PD fluid. In order to evaluate whether a newly formulated fluid of neutral pH, and containing low levels of glucose degradation products (GDP), resulted in improved in vivo biocompatibility, it was compared in a clinical study to a standard PD fluid.
Atherosclerotic vascular disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance hemodialysis (HD). Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a multifunctional cytokine that inhibits the atheromatous process. We studied coding region polymorphisms of the TGF-beta1 gene (+869 T --&gt; C at codon 10 and +915 G --&gt; C at codon 25) as genetic susceptibility factors for prevalent vascular disease and cardiac outcomes in a cohort of HD patients enrolled in the HEMO Study.
While the influence of cytokine gene polymorphisms on immunologic complications after organ transplantation is widely evaluated, little is known about predictive value of cytokine genotype for the development of nonimmunologic post-transplant complications: hypertension, dyslipoproteinemia, diabetes mellitus, hyperuricemia.
Catabolism by intestinal and hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), and excretion by P-glycoprotein (PGP), has a major influence on oral bioavailability of calcineurin inhibitors. In this study, the activity of intestinal and hepatic CYP3A4 and PGP in vivo was assessed in renal transplant recipients during the first year after transplantation (Tx).
Current cardiovascular risk calculators, widely used in the general population, have not yet been validated in renal transplant recipients. We conducted a prospective study to determine the incidence and risk factors for ischemic heart disease in renal transplant recipients and to assess the relevance of the Framingham Heart Study risk calculator in this population.
Microalbuminuria appears to be a risk marker for atherosclerosis. However, little is known about the direct association between microalbuminuria and vascular wall properties.
Effective conductivity clearance (K(ecn)) has been reported to be a surrogate for effective urea clearance (K(eu)), where both are usually defined respectively as the dialyzer conductivity and urea clearances (K(cn), K(u)) corrected for access recirculation (R(ac)). However, many investigators have reported K(ecn)/K(eu) to be &lt;1 and postulated anatomic distribution of Na in plasma water, cardiopulmonary recirculation (R(cp)), and high rates of urea clearance (K(u)) as causes. The aims of these studies were to devise analytic models of these mechanisms and to clinically evaluate the modeled relationships.
A recent study of operating room (OR) team communication in a large, urban hospital described recurrent tension catalysts and a preliminary theory of team members' interpretive processes. To determine to what extent these findings were transferable to other institutional contexts, we conducted a validation study in 2 small, academic hospitals in a mid-size city.
Ward rounds are an essential responsibility for doctors in hospital settings. Tools for guiding and assessing trainees' performance of ward rounds are needed. A checklist was developed for that purpose for use with trainees in internal medicine.
A 2-week interprofessional clinical course was designed for medical students in their surgical eighth term, and nursing, occupational therapy and physiotherapy students, all in their sixth term. Clinical tutors were responsible for the patients and also supervised the students. The goals for the students included: to provide the patients with good medical care, nursing and rehabilitation; to develop their own professional roles; to enhance their level of understanding of the other professions; to stress the importance of good communication for teamwork and for patient care; to enhance understanding of the role of the patient, and to become more aware of ethical aspects of health care.
We carried out a survey of attitudes to learning anatomy amongst students from a range of health care disciplines in a multiprofessional context.
Debate abounds regarding the most appropriate candidates to admit to medical school. This paper examines whether there is any advantage to admitting 'graduate' entrants over secondary school leavers on selected medical school and practice outcomes.
Liposuction has been proposed as a potential treatment for the metabolic complications of obesity. We evaluated the effect of large-volume abdominal liposuction on metabolic risk factors for coronary heart disease in women with abdominal obesity.
Whether a patient's sex is associated with the risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism is unknown.
Allografts are commonly used in orthopedic reconstructive surgery. In 2001, approximately 875,000 musculoskeletal allografts were distributed by U.S. tissue banks. After the death from Clostridium sordellii sepsis of a 23-year-old man who had received a contaminated allograft from a tissue bank (Tissue Bank A), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention initiated an investigation, including enhanced case finding, of the methods used for the recovery, processing, and testing of tissue.
An open-label study indicated that selective depletion of B cells with the use of rituximab led to sustained clinical improvements for patients with rheumatoid arthritis. To confirm these observations, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, controlled study.
The induction of anaesthesia for surgery is a stressful time for both child and parents. To treat preoperative anxiety in children, pharmacological methods (premedication) and behavioural methods (the presence of parents during the induction of anaesthesia) have been used, both independently and in combination. The purpose of this investigation was to study the effect of both premedication and parental presence on preoperative anxiety in a homogeneous population.
The aim of this study was to compare the effect of single-dose caudal ropivacaine, ropivacaine plus ketamine and ropivacaine plus tramadol in children for postoperative pain management.
Spinal anaesthesia has been used in children for over 100 years and in the last two decades its popularity for newborns and infants has increased, but there are still unanswered questions with the technique.
Establishment of good analgesia is of major concern in the postoperative period following adenotonsillectomy. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of ketamine, morphine and tramadol on postoperative pain after adenotonsillectomy in children.
Literature concerning learning curves for anaesthesiological procedures in paediatric anaesthesia is rare. The aim of this study was to assess the number of penile blocks needed to guarantee a high success rate in children.
Rofecoxib is a selective COX-2 inhibitor that does not interfere with platelet function and is associated with fewer bleeding complications than other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Our aims were to evaluate the safety and the efficacy of rofecoxib administration to paediatric patients undergoing adenotonsillectomy (T&amp;A).
With the introduction of the concept of brainstem death as acceptable proof that life has ended, rather than cessation of the beating heart, the process of determining brain death has to be rigorous to ensure maintenance of confidence in the definition. A recent study from South Thames in the UK revealed that only 44% of brainstem death documentation was complete at the time of referral to the transplant coordinator. The aim of our study was to see whether our documentation of brainstem death in paediatric practice complied with the UK Royal College's guidelines and to determine whether any changes are required to be instituted.
Chloral hydrate (CH) sedation for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is associated with significant failure rates, adverse events and delayed recovery. Pentobarbital (PB), reportedly produces successful sedation in 98% of children undergoing diagnostic imaging. This study compared the efficacy, adverse events and recovery characteristics of CH vs PB in children undergoing MRI.
The physiological changes that take place in blood flow in the brain during pregnancy and the puerperium are still only poorly understood. The harmlessness of transcranial Doppler (TCD) makes it a suitable method of study.
The risk of cerebral embolism following angioplasty-stent placement (AGP) is higher than that observed after a carotid endarterectomy (CE) using transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. Nevertheless, no studies have been conducted to compare the two revascularisation procedures with the latest neuroimaging techniques.
Paediatric neurology (PN) remains 'hidden' somewhere between paediatrics and neurology in almost all health care centres and this makes it difficult to allocate resources in a proper manner.
The syndrome of chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) is a mitochondrial disease characterized by ptosis and ophthalmoplegia has that has been associated to the presence of large deletion, single or multiple, in the mitochondrial DNA of skeletal muscle.
Cornelia de Lange syndrome is a rare polimalformative association that shows an expresivity of unknown etiology being most cases sporadic. The diagnosis is clinical.
Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a myelodysplastic syndrome that constitutes an infrequent cause of ischemic stroke. Few clinical reports have been published describing the clinical onset of ET in the form of a vascular accident.
Syringomyelia and Arnold-Chiari malformation are two dysraphism that often appear together. Clinical manifestations are diverse although some patients remain asymptomatic for years. Syncope, supposedly due to a dysfunction of medulla baroceptors and spinal cord intermediolateral horn, is uncommon, particularly as the initial symptom.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a well defined contiguous gene syndrome that is caused by an interstitial deletion in the 17p11.2 region. It is characterised by the presentation of characteristic facial features, brachydactylia, short stature, varying degrees of mental retardation, occasional neuropathy and a specific behavioural phenotype that points to this entity.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are severe, although not very common, clinical skin pictures that are usually related to the use of medication. Several antiepileptic drugs, including phenytoin, have been linked to SJS/TEN. Some authors have described an increased risk for SJS/TEN when phenytoin is associated to radiotherapy, while others report the possibility of an increased risk when it is associated to corticoids.
Recently, mechanical vibration on the neck has begun to be used to improve diagnostic sensitivity in patients who have vestibular disorders.
Due to an increase in the use of industrial products (gases, solvents, pesticides, heavy metals, pharmaceuticals, and so on) living beings are exposed to the effects of many new substances, many of whose possibly toxic effects were not researched sufficiently before being put to use on a massive scale. Owing to their particular physiology, habitat and behaviour, children and teenagers are often a target for these substances. Most of the intoxications present with symptoms and signs of nervous system involvement that are similar to those caused by other diseases. In certain cases, a diagnosis is provided by the setting or witnesses. In other cases, however, first a high degree of suspicion is required and then this is sometimes confirmed by toxicology laboratory studies.
Rat corneal allograft rejection is delayed by repeated local injection of liposomes filled with clodronate (dichloromethylene diphosphonate), which selectively deplete macrophages. Various administration schedules of liposomes were tested to determine the optimum schedule for prevention of graft rejection. Cell subpopulations in the anterior segment of the eye were studied at different time points after transplantation to assess the kinetics of the immune response.
Alterations in synthesis and breakdown of extracellular matrix components play a role in acute rejection after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are capable of degrading basement membranes and are involved in the process of tissue remodelling in inflammation and liver fibrosis.
Both CC and CXC chemokines direct monocyte and T-cell migration and activation at sites of vascular injury, but the relative contributions of each chemokine class to transplant vasculopathy development have not been defined. The nonselective C, CC, and CXC chemokine binding protein, M-T7, inhibits vasculopathy development after angioplasty and after renal transplant. We have assessed the effects of three viral chemokine-binding proteins with differing ranges of chemokine inhibition on plaque growth in rats after aortic allograft transplant.
The precise mechanisms underlying the development of chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) and the associated renal fibrosis remain uncertain. The protein-crosslinking enzyme, tissue transglutaminase (tTg), has recently been implicated in renal fibrosis. METHODS.: We investigated the involvement of tTg and its crosslink product, epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl) lysine, in 23 human kidney allografts during the early posttransplantation period and related these to changes of CAN that developed in 8 of them. Sequential biopsies were investigated using immunohistochemical, immunofluorescence, and in situ enzyme activity techniques.
Although hypothermic machine perfusion (HMP) preservation has been shown to improve organ function and to expand the organ donor pool, problems still exist with the current HMP technology for liver preservation. The present study was conducted to investigate endothelial and hepatocellular functions following extended HMP (&gt; r =24 hr) in rat liver model.
Increased oxygen radical production may not only contribute to posttransplant ischemia-reperfusion injury but also to acute rejection of renal allografts. Xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) may constitute a relevant reactive oxygen species (ROS) source. The study was conducted (1). to determine ROS production as well as oxidant and antioxidant enzyme activities in renal grafts and (2). to modulate acute rejection by tungsten administration, a specific inhibitor of XOR.
The human cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in transplant patients. In this study, we compared the diagnostic value of pp65 antigen test, qualitative nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and quantitative Taqman PCR in predicting the clinical outcome of CMV infection.
Modulation of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) activity in graft-infiltrating T cells may alter their susceptibility to immunosuppression.
The authors studied the relationship between the dynamics of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) load, CD8 T-cell activation and differentiation, and EBV-associated symptoms in 25 children after kidney transplantation (Tx).
There is a discrepancy between demand and supply of donor organs for kidney transplantation. Health care providers can influence the willingness to donate or hold an organ donor card. It is unclear how educated current and future health care professionals are about organ donation and what constitutes their attitude toward this topic.
Maintenance immunosuppression required after organ transplantation creates a permissive environment in which cancer cells can proliferate because of lack of natural immunologic surveillance. With more than a decade of clinical experience, this report is the first to address the risk of de novo cancer after intestinal transplantation.
Minimally invasive, living-donor nephrectomy (LDN) is an attractive procedure for the donor in kidney transplantation (KTx). Its advantages include better cosmesis, shorter hospital stay, and rapid recovery. The most commonly performed, minimally invasive nephrectomy is done laparoscopically. However, the technical challenges, a steep learning curve for the surgeon, the risk of impaired early graft function, and the high cost of the procedure, have prevented minimally invasive LDN from gaining wide acceptance. To overcome these problems, we have developed a new surgical procedure named video-assisted minilaparotomy (VAM) for LDN. VAM-LDN is performed entirely with a small retrieval incision. Moreover, it does not require the induction of pneumoperitoneum, thereby avoiding potential vascular and renal complications.
Hyperacute rejection of vascularized discordant xenografts can now be effectively managed. However, acute vascular rejection (AVR) then ensues, resulting in graft destruction, coagulopathy, or both within weeks. The aim of this study was to determine associations between humoral responses to the xenograft and the induction of AVR, coagulopathy, or both.
A main technological problem related to the clinical application of myoblast transplantation is the poor migration of transplanted cells. In this study, we investigated a new physiologic approach that consists of coinjecting motogenic factors insulin growth factor (IGF)-1 or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) to enhance the migration of human skeletal myoblasts. Among the different ways by which those factors can induce the cell migration processes, we investigated their capacity to enhance cell endogenous proteolytic activity that will help transplanted cells to migrate through the extracellular matrix.
Tolerance to organ grafts has been achieved by establishing a state of stable mixed-cell chimerism after bone marrow transplantation. Gene therapy has been applied to establish chimerism for cells expressing galactose alpha 1,3 galactose in alpha 1,3 galactosyltransferase deficient (gal knockout) mice using retroviral vectors. Limitations to the success of this methodology include short-term expression of the introduced gene and rejection of gal hearts transplanted into these animals within a month.
Although hepatitis C virus (HCV) recurrence is almost universal after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), the impact of viral infection on liver graft is highly variable and difficult to predict. Because of the possible relationship between replicative senescence (RS) and the accelerated development of liver fibrosis, we aimed to assess the potential role of RS in the severity of HCV-related chronic hepatitis recurrence after OLT.
Deliberately generated tolerogenic dendritic cells (DC) might be a useful tool for induction of donor-specific tolerance in transplantation. In this article, the authors study the effect of mitomycin C (MMC)-treated DC on rat T cells and delineate the mechanism of their conversion into tolerogenic cells.
Periodically, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute publishes recommendations on the prevention, detection, evaluation and treatment of high blood pressure. The Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure--known as "JNC 7"--substantially revises previous recommendations.
In December 2003, the National High Blood Pressure Education Program of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute finalized the Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure, called JNC 7.
The authors tested the hypothesis that surface-finishing treatments and the type of storage solutions significantly affected the staining of resin-based composites, or RBCs, and unfilled resins, or URs.
As part of a large-scale fluoridation cessation study, standardized examiners assessed 8,281 school-aged children for dental fluorosis using the Thylstrup Fejerskov index, or TFI, in which scores range from 0 (no fluorosis) to 9 (severe loss of enamel with change of anatomical appearance).
Adhesively luted all-ceramic restorations preserve and stabilize weakened tooth structure, but there is little published information about the clinical performance of large, all-ceramic restorations.
The authors describe bulimia nervosa, or BN, and its effect on the parotid gland. The associated asymptomatic bilaterally enlarged parotid glands often present a diagnostic dilemma.
Amyloidosis comprises a heterogenous group of disorders characterized by amyloid deposition in various organs. The authors document a case in which amyloidosis manifested as a localized, severe, periodontal disease.
Tooth whitening is one of the fastest growing areas in cosmetic and restorative dentistry. An increasing number of patients are demanding faster ways to bleach their teeth. Therefore, clinicians are being pushed to seek quicker and easier means to bleach their patients' teeth, while maintaining safety in bleaching procedures.
Women are increasingly entering the dental work force. This study examines the impact of sex, age and other demographic characteristics on dentists' work force participation and on hours worked from 1979 through 1999.
The authors evaluated the fracture resistance of endodontically treated teeth filled with either gutta-percha or a new resin-based obturation material.
Inflammatory adhesion molecules play a key role in the development of ischemic lesions. Elevated plasma concentrations of soluble adhesion molecules are reported in stroke patients, but data are still controversial. Our aim was to explore the potential association of plasma levels of soluble (s) intercellular and vascular cellular adhesion molecules-1 (sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1), sE-selectin and sL-selectin with acute ischemic stroke.
Congestive heart failure (CHF), the most frequent reason for hospital admission of elderly patients, is an important and rapidly increasing cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Its development is accompanied by left-ventricle (LV) dilatation and pump dysfunction. The extracellular space in the heart is now recognized as an essential element of myocardial structure and function, and a dynamic participant in remodelling. The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are an endogenous enzyme system responsible for extracellular collagen degradation and remodelling.
Orbital emphysema is a common complication of trauma and fracture of orbital bones. However, subcutaneous emphysema also can rarely lead to orbital emphysema. We reported the clinical and radiological findings in a patient with diplopia and blepharoptosis following thoracotomy for lung cancer.
We started with Sarajevo Vascular Study (SVS) in 1994 with basic aim to evaluate arterial occlusive disease (AOD) of lower extremities and investigate possible effect of amelioration of risk factors to atherosclerosis regression. In 1996 we expanded SVS to polyvascular atherosclerotic disease, asymptomatic or symptomatic atherosclerotic disease on various vascular beds i.e. lower extremity arterial occlusive disease (AOD), cerebrovascular disease (CVD), coronary artery disease (CAD). We enrolled a total of 1680 pts. in the study but this number has changed depending on war migrations, comorbidity, or paramedical reasons. Follow-up of 10 yrs. had 645 pts, and follow-up of 8 yrs. had 1035 pts.
The occurrence of U-wave in electrocardiogram appears after T-wave. It is period of the greatest excitability of the myocardium in heart electrical activity usually of the some direction as its own T-wave. AIM OF THE WORK ANALYSE: U-wave with ischaemia and dysfunction of the myocardium in exercise test.
Correction of anemia in haemodialysed patients by recombinant human erythropoetin (R-Hu Epo) has been reported to improve sexual functions and hormonal disturbances. The purpose of this study was to evaluate how levels of sexual hormones and sexual function differ before and during a 12 month R-Hu Epo therapy.
In isolated nerves, tetrodotoxin (TTX) blocks nerve conduction longer than bupivacaine. In vivo, however, both substances block nerve conduction to an equal duration, presumably because the hydrophilic TTX binds only weakly to the perineural tissue. High molecular weight hyaluronic acid (HA) prolongs the action of local anaesthetics several-fold. We tested whether admixture of HA enhances the binding of TTX to the perineural tissue and thus induces an ultra-long conduction block after a single application.
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is associated with improved survival in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and has been widely recommended. The extent of NIPPV use in ALS patients and the factors associated with its use have not been studied.
Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) probably improves survival in ALS, but its effect on quality of life (QoL) is less clear. Most potentially useful QoL instruments have not been validated in this context.
A set of human remains unearthed near Ekaterinburg, Russia has been attributed to the Romanov Imperial Family of Russia and their physician and servants. That conclusion was officially accepted by the Russian government following publication of DNA tests that were widely publicized. The published study included no discussion of major forensic discrepancies and the information regarding the burial site and remains included irregularities. Furthermore, its conclusion of Romanov identity was based on molecular behaviour that indicates contamination rather than endogenous DNA. The published claim to have amplified by PCR a 1223 bp region of degraded DNA in a single segment for nine individuals and then to have obtained sequence of PCR products derived from that segment without cloning indicates that the Ekaterinburg samples were contaminated with non-degraded, high molecular weight, 'fresh' DNA.
Family studies provide support for a modest genetic influence on offspring life span, although the magnitude of these correlations is small.
CD4 STR/Alu haplotype diversity, both for its qualitative and quantitative properties, has been widely used in molecular anthropology to clarify the degree of genetic relationships among human populations.
Population variation in the timing of reproductive maturation among boys has received relatively little attention. However, evidence that the timing of pubertal onset is related to measures of adiposity suggests that the onset of reproductive maturation among boys in populations with poor nutritional status will be delayed.
Age at menarche is an important developmental milestone known to be modified by social and environmental factors. The determinants and potential change over time of age at menarche in Colombia are not well documented.
The appropriateness of using international reference data for assessing growth of children and adolescents from developing countries has been debated. If the growth performance in at least those sections of the society that may be considered affluent has reached the levels represented by the international reference, the case for adoption of the NCHS reference would be strong. Findings from studies in younger children indicate appropriateness of these standards but data from older children are lacking.
Studies comparing the growth of indigenous high-altitude Aymara children and children of low-altitude European descent who have been born and raised at high altitude in the Andes have provided evidence for genetically-determined differences in thorax growth, as well as for population differences in height, weight and other measures of overall size. Comparable studies now can be undertaken in Asia because of the growing number of Han Chinese who have been born and raised at high altitude on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau.
It is well known that the birth weight of twins is less than that of singletons, but there is less information about how birth lengths compare and how twins grow in the postnatal and early childhood period. The implications of the shorter duration of gestation of twins in comparing their postnatal progress with that of singletons are seldom taken into consideration.
The purpose of the study was to examine the height and weight in Nordic children during the years around World War II (WWII), and compare them with the nutritional situation during the same period.
Height and weight are the most important measures of growth and development and indirect indicators of living conditions. The socio-economic conditions in Serbia have varied drastically. In 1990, a political and economic crisis started causing a rapid fall of standards of living.
The infusional LV5FU2 and Arbeitsgemeinschaft Internische Onkologie (AIO) regimens are used widely in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. Irinotecan combined with these regimens increases survival in front-line treatment. Irinotecan also improves survival in second-line treatment.
The mechanism of action of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has been associated with inhibition of thymidylate synthase (TS) and incorporation of 5-FU into RNA and DNA, but limited data are available in human tumor tissue for the latter. We therefore measured incorporation in human tumor biopsy specimens after administration of a test dose of 5-FU alone or with leucovorin.
Combined modality therapy (CMT) is the standard of care for patients with unresectable stage III non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC); however, insufficient data are available regarding prognostic factors in this disease setting.
Brain metastases are a common occurrence in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) is the standard therapy; more aggressive approaches such as surgery or radiosurgery are indicated in a subset of patients only. The role of systemic treatments remains controversial. Gefitinib is an oral, highly tolerable, specific inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor-associated tyrosine kinase, which has shown activity in chemotherapy pre-treated NSCLC. The aim of this study was to evaluate the activity and safety of gefitinib in NSCLC patients with brain metastases.
The aim of this study was to characterize the factors associated with chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea (CIA) and to examine whether the phase of the menstrual cycle at chemotherapy start could affect the rate of CIA in premenopausal women with early breast cancer.
Burkitt's/Burkitt-like lymphoma (BL/BLL) are highly aggressive lymphomas mainly affecting children and young adults. We report the results in adolescent and adult patients with the use of three successive regimens.
Long-term survivors of successfully treated Hodgkin's disease (HD) are at risk for late complications. Among these, secondary solid tumors are most serious because they are often fatal. The aim of this retrospective analysis was to assess the incidence, relative risk and risk factors of secondary solid tumors in HD patients registered in the database of the German Hodgkin Lymphoma Study Group (GHSG).
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) of the stomach is a relatively common disease. Recently, chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone (CHOP) has been reported as effective treatment for early-stage gastric DLBCL. Given the fact that the application of the CD20 antibody rituximab (R) in addition to CHOP has improved outcomes in nodal DLBCL, we have analysed our experience with application of R-CHOP in patients with early-stage gastric DLBCL.
The distribution of the histopathological subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is different among various geographical areas. However, there are few reports concerning cytogenetic findings of NHL, especially T-cell lymphoma, in Asian people.
The aim of this study was to define prognostic parameters and guidelines for diagnosis and treatment for CD56+ hematological neoplasms with first presentation in the skin.
We postulated that in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) or melanoma, depletion of normal B cells using the anti-CD20 mAb rituximab before treatment with low-dose interleukin (IL)-2 would improve clinical outcome.
AMD473 (previously ZD0473) is a new-generation platinum compound with activity against a wide range of human tumour cell lines and xenografts, including carboplatin- and cisplatin-resistant lines. To assess its potential combined with a taxane, a phase I study of AMD473 and docetaxel in advanced cancer was initiated by the National Cancer Institute of Canada-Clinical Trials Group.
This phase I and pharmacokinetic study of pemetrexed in combination with oxaliplatin was performed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and to evaluate safety and pharmacokinetics in patients with metastatic solid tumors.
Cancer prevalence-the proportion of people in a population with a diagnosis of cancer-includes groups with widely differing cancer care needs. We estimated the proportions of the prevalent colon cancer cases requiring initial care, terminal care and follow-up.
Granulomatous mastitis (GM) is a rare disease which predominantly occurs in premenopausal women shortly after their last childbirth.
Its etiology is unclear, however, the disease has been shown to be correlated with breast-feeding and the use of oral contraceptives. An autoimmune component has also been discussed.
Ovarian hemangiomas are rare tumors, with less than 50 reported cases in the English literature. This is a low incidence, considering the rich vascular supply of the ovary.
Upright or ambulatory birth positions are favorable for fetal oxygenation. Studies of fetal oxygenation with regard to maternal position require free maternal mobility. Therefore, telemetry for a fetal sensor for such investigations is a pre-requisite. Telemetry-if technically feasible-could enable monitoring of fetal oxygen partial pressure using an existing sensor without restricting the mobility of the parturient woman. We have developed a telemetry system for use with a fetal transcutaneous partial oxygen pressure sensor (ttcpO(2)) and have studied effects of maternal position and position changes during normal labor.
Nudix hydrolases form a protein family whose function is to hydrolyse intracellular nucleotides and so regulate their levels and eliminate potentially toxic derivatives. The genome of the radioresistant bacterium Deinococcus radiodurans encodes 25 nudix hydrolases, an unexpectedly large number. These may contribute to radioresistance by removing mutagenic oxidised and otherwise damaged nucleotides. Characterisation of these hydrolases is necessary to understand the reason for their presence. Here, we report the cloning and characterisation of the DR0975 gene product, a nudix hydrolase that appears to be unique to this organism.
The transport of intra-cellular particles by microtubules is a major biological function. Under appropriate in vitro conditions, microtubule preparations behave as a 'complex' system and show 'emergent' phenomena. In particular, they form dissipative structures that self-organise over macroscopic distances by a combination of reaction and diffusion.
At the turn of the 19th century the first observations of a female-biased sex ratio in broods and populations of the head louse, Pediculus humanus capitis, had been reported. A study by Buxton in 1940 on the sex ratio of lice on prisoners in Ceylon is still today the subject of reanalyses. This sex ratio distortion had been detected in ten different countries. In the last sixty years no new data have been collected, especially on scalp infestations under economically and socially more developed conditions.
Intracellular zinc concentration and localization are strictly regulated by two main protein components, metallothioneins and membrane transporters. In mammalian cells, two membrane transporters family are involved in intracellular zinc homeostasis: the uptake transporters called SLC39 or Zip family and the efflux transporters called SLC30 or ZnT family. ZnT proteins are members of the cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family of metal ion transporters.
Despite its direct connection to the nasopharynx which harbors otitis media pathogens as part of its normal flora, the middle ear cavity is kept free of these bacteria by as yet unknown mechanisms. Respiratory mucosal epithelia, including those of the middle ear and eustachian tube, secrete antimicrobial effectors including lysozyme, lactoferrin and beta defensins-1 and -2. To elucidate the role of these innate immune molecules in the normal defense and maintenance of sterility of respiratory mucosa such as that of the middle ear, we assessed their effect on the respiratory pathogens nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) 12, Moraxella catarrhalis 035E, and Streptococcus pneumoniae 3, and 6B.
Disability associated with work-related musculoskeletal disorders is an increasingly serious societal problem. Although most injured workers return quickly to work, a substantial number do not. The costs of chronic disability to the injured worker, his or her family, employers, and society are enormous. A means of accurate early identification of injured workers at risk for chronic disability could enable these individuals to be targeted for early intervention to promote return to work and normal functioning. The purpose of this study is to develop statistical models that accurately predict chronic work disability from data obtained from administrative databases and worker interviews soon after a work injury. Based on these models, we will develop a brief instrument that could be administered in medical or workers' compensation settings to screen injured workers for chronic disability risk.
Although previous studies suggest that postural control requires attention and other cognitive resources, the central mechanisms responsible for this relationship remain unclear. To address this issue, we examined the effects of altered attention on cortical activity and postural responses following mechanical perturbations to upright stance. We hypothesized that cortical activity would be attenuated but not delayed when mechanical perturbations were applied during a concurrent performance of a cognitive task (i.e. when attention was directed away from the perturbation). We also hypothesized that these cortical changes would be accompanied by alterations in the postural response, as evidenced by increases in the magnitude of anteroposterior (AP) centre of pressure (COP) peak displacements and tibialis anterior (TA) muscle activity. Healthy young adults (n = 7) were instructed to continuously track (cognitive task) or not track (control task) a randomly moving visual target using a hand-held joystick. During each of these conditions, unpredictable translations of a moving floor evoked cortical and postural responses. Scalp-recorded cortical activity, COP, and TA electromyographic (EMG) measures were collected.
Gemcitabine is an analogue of deoxycytidine with activity against several solid tumors. In order to elucidate the mechanisms by which tumor cells become resistant to gemcitabine, we developed the resistant subline RL-G from the human follicular lymphoma cell line RL-7 by prolonged exposure of parental cells to increasing concentrations of gemcitabine.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a new infectious disease that caused a global outbreak in 2003. Research has shown that it is caused by a novel coronavirus. A series of cases is reported where polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing on tears had demonstrated the presence of the virus. Detection of ocular infection from tears using the PCR technique has been widely used by ophthalmologists to diagnose infections for other viruses.
FTY720 is a potent immunomodulator with unique effects on lymphocyte homing and has recently proved to be safe and effective in renal transplantation in man. The authors investigated the potency of FTY720 in inhibiting allograft rejection in the rat model of orthotopic allogeneic penetrating keratoplasty.
Temporalis fascia has been recommended for hydroxyapatite sphere exposure. The aim of this study was to identify potential risk factors for exposure of porous polyethylene (Medpor) sphere implants and evaluate the use of autogenous temporalis fascia as a patch graft for exposure.
Conventional magnetic resonance imaging may fail to identify very small but clinically relevant acute subcortical brain infarcts. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) is very sensitive and specific for acute cerebral ischemia and should contribute to the early detection of such lesions.
The cost of acute ischemic events in persons with established atherosclerotic conditions is unknown.
This is the first survey of formal complaints to a Medical Responsibility Board (MRB) in the literature concerning stroke management and the disciplinary actions to which the complaints lead.
Large randomised trials performed in the 1980s and early 1990s showed that carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is beneficial for patients with recently symptomatic severe stenosis. Some surgeons have argued that the operative risk of stroke and death has fallen over the last decade due to refinements in operative technique, and that the indications for surgery should therefore now be broadened. Yet, studies of routinely collected data report higher operative mortality than in the trials, and surgical case series without independent post-operative assessment by a neurologist may not provide reliable data on stroke risk.
Carotid stenting avoids general anaesthesia, cranial nerve injury and the discomforts of surgical treatment of carotid stenosis. A systematic review of the randomised trials showed no overall difference in the major risks of endovascular treatment for carotid stenosis compared with surgery, but the confidence intervals were wide and both methods carried a significant risk of stroke. The use of protection devices appears to improve the safety of endovascular treatment, but there are little randomised data available about long-term outcomes. We have therefore set up an international, multicentre, randomised, controlled, open, prospective clinical trial, namely the International Carotid Stenting Study (ICSS), also known as CAVATAS-2. The objectives of the ICSS are to compare the risks, benefits and cost-effectiveness of a treatment policy of referral for carotid stenting compared with referral for carotid endarterectomy.
In advance of a large clinical end point trial evaluating the effectiveness of subcutaneous interleukin 2 (scIL-2) for treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, 3 identically designed Vanguard trials were conducted in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Bangkok, Thailand; and Houston, Texas. To more precisely quantitate the effect on CD4 cell response of 3 different doses of scIL-2 that were administered twice daily for 5 days every 8 weeks, the results of these 3 trials were pooled in a meta-analysis.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene. How FMR1 affects the function of the central and peripheral nervous systems is still unclear. FMR1 is an RNA binding protein that associates with a small percentage of total mRNAs in vivo. It remains largely unknown what proteins encoded by mRNAs in the FMR1-messenger ribonuclear protein (mRNP) complex are most relevant to the affected physiological processes.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 21 nucleotide (nt) RNAs that regulate gene expression in plants and animals. Most known plant miRNAs target transcription factors that influence cell fate determination, and biological functions of miRNA-directed regulation have been reported for four of 15 known microRNA gene families: miR172, miR159, miR165, and miR168. Here, we identify a developmental role for miR164-directed regulation of NAC-domain genes, which encode a family of transcription factors that includes CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON1 (CUC1) and CUC2.
Genes of the achaete-scute complex encode transcription factors whose activity regulates the development of neural cells. The spatially restricted expression of achaete-scute on the mesonotum of higher flies governs the development and positioning of the large sensory bristles. On the scutum the bristles are arranged into conserved patterns, based on an ancestral arrangement of four longitudinal rows. This pattern appears to date back to the origin of cyclorraphous flies about 100-140 million years ago. The origin of the four-row bauplan, which is independent of body size, and the reasons for its conservation, are not known.
The HIV Nef protein downregulates CD4 through sequential connection with clathrin-coated pits and the COP1 coatomer, resulting in accelerated endocytosis and lysosomal targeting.
Discrimination between edible and contaminated foods is crucial for the survival of animals. In Drosophila, a family of gustatory receptors (GRs) expressed in taste neurons is thought to mediate the recognition of sugars and bitter compounds, thereby controlling feeding behavior.
We examined the strategy of T-cell depletion of HLA-identical sibling grafts for the prevention of GvHD, as well as disease control and overall survival.
Although widely used, commercially available automated culture methods are not US Food and Drug Administration-approved for sterility testing of cell-therapy products. For cell-therapy products regulated under Section 351 of the Public Health Service Act, sterility testing must be performed by the methods described in 21 CFR 610.12 and USP &lt;71&gt; (CFR/USP method), or by methods demonstrated to be equivalent.
In clinical trials, cancer patients have received immunotherapy based on DCs generated from leukapheresed blood. It would therefore be an advantage to be able to measure blood levels and estimate the phenotype of DC before leukapheresis, to estimate the yield required for preparation of vaccines, or ex vivo stimulation of T cells for adoptive immunotherapy.
Experimental data have suggested that BM-cell implantation can improve infarcted cardiac function. However, the number of implanted cells that survive is still unknown. The present study was performed to investigate whether implantation of autologous BM mononuclear cells (BM-MNCs) transfected with phVEGF165 can increase the number of surviving implanted cells, and enhance functional improvement of infarcted hearts in rabbits.
The recent success in the derivation of differentiated cell types from stem cells has raised prospects for the application of regenerative cell therapy. In particular, embryonic stem cells are attractive sources for cell transplantation, due to their immortality and rapid growth. These cells, however, also possess tumorigenic properties, which raises serious safety concerns and makes biosafety testing mandatory. Our goal was to establish a highly sensitive animal model for testing the proliferative potential of stem-cell grafts.
Recent reports have described a new strategy for differentiation and maturation of monocyte (Mo)-derived DCs within only 48 h of in vitro culture (fast-DC). Here we assess the efficacy of the fast-DC to process and present different Aspergillus fumigatus and CMV Ag preparations to autologous T cells, compared with DCs generated in standard 7-day cultures (standard-DC).
Very few tumoral Ags have yet been isolated in NHL B cells. It is nevertheless possible to use whole tumor cells as a source of tumor Ags. We describe the purification of large numbers of human NHL B cells directly from lymph node or spleen biopsies, and different preparations allowing their use in a clinical setting.
Several studies identified muscle weakness, history of falls, gait deficit and balance deficit as the most common risk factors for falls.
Complex Regional Pain Syndrome Type I is a pathological condition that occurs without evident nerve injury and follows a course characterized by severe pain.
The community-based training of the University of Maiduguri Medical College was expanded in 1990 to cover three rural local government areas (LGAs) located between 25 and 145 km from the University. This study was conducted between March and May 2000 to assess the impact and level of awareness of the training in the three LGAs in promoting the ideals of Primary Health Care (PHC) and community-based medical education, as perceived by community leaders.
Assessment of medical students using the traditional oral (viva) system has been marred by being highly subjective, non-structured, and biased. The use of the objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) would circumvent these disadvantages. The OSCE is, however, costly and time-consuming particularly if used for assessment of large numbers of students. The need for another form of examination that enjoys the advantages of the OSCE while avoiding its disadvantages in the face of limited resources has been the inspiration behind this innovative approach.
Written communications have a long history in medicine. Today, doctors spend a significant part of their work time completing paper work. Although the importance of accurate written communications is acknowledged, medical curricula rarely include focused teaching on this topic.
Clinics are the cornerstone of the new district-based health system. They are staffed primarily by nurses and are often the only contact point for large parts of the rural population. In conditions of remoteness and isolation, clinic staff depend upon personal interaction with clinic supervisors to enable them to function productively. Yet experience has shown that supervisors do not always fulfil this role. This project aimed at gaining insight into the status of clinic supervision, understanding the factors that hinder effective supervision and making recommendations for improvements.
The course was developed and implemented in the Family Practice Residency Program (FPRP) in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Empathy is critical to the development of professionalism in medical students, and the humanities-particularly literature-have been touted as an effective tool for increasing student empathy. This quantitative/qualitative study was undertaken to assess whether reading and discussing poetry and prose related to patients and doctors could significantly increase medical student empathy and appreciation of the relevance of the humanities for their own professional development.
In many ways the task of physicians is to listen to stories and place them within larger social contexts. Problem-based learning (PBL) can potentially reinforce such a view of the physician's work. The conventional PBL case, however, largely replicates the medical record, which in turn, is restricted in its purview to biomedical concerns. The conventional case thus encourages an approach to clinical reasoning that insufficiently recognizes (1) the cross-cultural nature of all clinical encounters, (2) the central role of narrative, and (3) the political economic influences that contribute to disease and suffering in our world.
Maximising the full potential of health and educational interventions in South African schools requires assessment of the current level of mental abilities of the school children as measured by cognitive and scholastic tests and the identification of any barriers to improved performance.
The Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (LNS) is a rare x-linked excessive disorder of purine metabolism, caused by the congenital absence of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT).
The optimal timing of valve surgery is very important. In patients who are severely symptomatic, the marked improvement in symptomatic status observed following successful valve surgery. However, in patients with no or only mild symptoms, the decision is more difficult. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine whether the measurement of plasma brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) levels is useful to decide surgical timing for valve disease.
Elevated levels of water hardness are related to lower mortality from coronary heart disease (CHD) in different populations. This ecologic study assessed whether water hardness is related to lower mortality from CHD in Osaka Prefecture, with 44 municipalities, Japan.
The purpose of this study was to assess the elastic properties of the descending aorta and the coronary flow velocity reserve (CFR) in patients after coronary angiography.
Cardiac hypertrophy has been demonstrated to decreases the ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K(ATP)), the major protective mechanism following the energy depletion, a common condition seen during the reperfusion after open heart surgery. In this study we have demonstrated the role of ischemic preconditioning (IP) in preventing the reperfusion injury of the hypertrophied heart by activation of the depleted K(ATP) channels.
The diagnosis of pulmonary embolism (PE) remains difficult. Ultrasounds allow for the exploration of the venous system to great extent and for the detection of indirect signs of PE. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of acute cor pulmonale (ACP) and deep venous thrombosis (DVT) found by ultrasonographic techniques in a population of patients with PE.
Hypertension may develop early, before the age of 40 years, in both genders, so-called young-onset hypertension. The clinical characteristics of young-onset hypertension have not been well defined.
The effects of beta-radiation with a (188)rhenium ((188)Re)-filled balloon catheter system on angiographically normal reference segments have not been well defined.
There is growing evidence that anemia is common in CHF and may contribute to the high morbidity and mortality associated with this condition. However, there is considerable disagreement about the prevalence of anemia in this condition.
Although recent randomized trials with antithrombotic therapy in nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation (AF) patients emphasized the benefits of warfarin in preventing stroke, warfarin treatment is still far from optimal.
Prompt hospital admission is essential when treating acute coronary syndrome. Delay prior to admission is unnecessarily long. Therefore, a thorough scrutiny of the influence of characteristics, circumstantial and subjective variables on elements of prehospital delay among patients admitted with acute coronary syndrome is warranted.
Although for other forms of percutaneous coronary interventions an inverse relationship between operator volume and patient outcomes has been shown, the impact of operator volume on outcome after direct stenting has never been investigated.
Optimalization and improvement in stent material, stent design and deployment may alleviate the problem of restenosis after stenting. The Biflex stent is a novel-design stent made of nitinol; the vascular response after deployment in rabbit iliac arteries was evaluated.
Distal embolization during coronary angioplasty may result in vessel occlusion, no reflow and myonecrosis. This study tested the authors' clinical experiences using a guidewire system designed to preserve distal flow during angioplasty.
Research has shown that children with cerebral palsy have difficulties acquiring communication skills and that conversation with familiar partners follows restricted patterns, which are characterized by high levels of partner control and children's responsivity. Speech and language therapy often includes training for conversational partners to help to them recognize children's communicative signals and to create opportunities for children to take a more equal and independent role in conversation. However, the effectiveness of this indirect therapy has not been demonstrated reliably.
The ability to repair communicative breakdown is an important pragmatic language skill, yet very little is known about it in the population of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Previous investigations have shown that people with ASD, across a variety of ages and language levels, recognized communicative breakdown and responded to requests for clarification (RQCLs) with a wide variety of repair strategies. No previous work has assessed the repair abilities of speakers with ASD when faced with a persistent communicative breakdown indicated by a stacked series of RQCLs.
Children with specific language impairment (SLI) have language abilities not commensurate with other cognitive abilities. This pattern makes the SLI population of interest when investigating the relationship between language and theory of mind. One view regarding this relationship is that theory of mind develops independently of language, but certain language skills are required to meet the demands of tasks used to measure theory of mind, such as false belief. Another view is that language development facilitates theory of mind development, and specifically, that mastery of sentence complement structures is necessary for false belief.
The pragmatic skills of children with communication disorders and their assessment are currently an issue for speech and language therapy and educational placement.
Parents and professionals can both play a role in improving children's expressive language development and a number of alternative models of delivery exist that involve different levels of input by these two groups. However, these alternative treatments have not been subject to rigorous comparative analysis in terms of both cost and clinical effectiveness.
Theoretical and empirical support now exists for the finding that many children with expressive phonological impairment experience problems in acquiring phonological awareness and early literacy skills. Few studies, however, have examined the long-term academic and literacy outcomes for this population, in particular as the students leave the final stages of primary school.
Data have accumulated to show that the Lidcombe Program of early stuttering intervention is a safe treatment with positive outcomes for preschoolers who stutter, and a randomized controlled trial is under way at the time of writing. Program components have not been investigated experimentally so the functionality of each component is unknown.
Informal evidence suggests that many Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) students from outside of the UK and/or Republic of Ireland who come to the UK either do not return to their home country on qualification or do not practise as SLTs in the public sector. Many factors may contribute to this situation. Concern that it may result in part from a poor match between UK SLT education and the demands of the role in other countries led the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists (RCSLT) to fund a study of international SLT students' experiences of UK qualifying courses.
Randomized control trials and the use of meta-analysis in systematic reviews are the basis of evidence-based practice. The paper reviews their use in the development of evidence-based practice in speech and language therapy.
There has been no previous incidence survey of children referred to a speech and language therapy service in the UK. Previous studies of prevalence of specific communication difficulties provide contradictory data from which it is difficult to plan speech and language therapy service provision. Reliable data are needed concerning the nature and severity of impairments as well as the age and source of referral and the effects of cultural and socio-economic profiles of the population served.
Symptoms of prosodic problems have been found in Swedish children with language impairment at word and phrase level and possibly also at discourse level.
The Children's Communication Checklist (CCC 1998) was revised in 2003 (CCC-2) to provide a general screen for communication disorder and to identify pragmatic/social interaction deficits. Two validation studies were conducted with different populations of children with language and communication impairments.
Terms such as 'clinical intuition' have often been applied to the practice of speech and language therapy. Various authors have aimed to make the process of therapy practice more explicit, and it is argued that recently developed descriptive/analytic frameworks have the potential to engender the critical mindset necessary for student speech and language therapists to become good reflective practitioners, with the potential for enhancing clinical education.
There are no systematic surveys of the UK prison population, but data from several sources suggest that a significant number of prisoners might have limitations in their speech, language and communication abilities.
Working memory is considered to influence a range of linguistic skills, i.e. vocabulary acquisition, sentence comprehension and reading. Several studies have pointed to limitations of working memory in children with specific language impairment. Few studies, however, have explored the role of working memory for language deficits in children with hearing impairment.
Intense pulsed light (IPL) sources have been reported in non-ablative photorejuvenation, but the excellent histological findings do not always coincide with the clinical results and patient satisfaction index (SI).
Propionibacterium acnes synthesize and store a large amount of porphyrins. Once the porphyrin is exposed to visible light it becomes chemically active and transfers to an excited state, resulting in the formation of singlet oxygen, which combines with cell membranes to destroy the P. acnes. This process is dependent on the rate of production of excited porphyrin molecules, which is influenced by the concentration of porphyrins, the concentration of photons, the temperature, and the wavelength of the photons.
Skin ulcers with compromised healing remain a major problem for plastic and dermatological surgeons. Low incident levels of laser energy have been shown to increase the blood flow rate and volume and to accelerate the wound healing process, thus raising the possibility in augmenting treatment for skin ulcers.
In the past century, unwanted hair has been traditionally treated with multitudes of techniques that were found to be slow, tedious, painful, impractical, and resulted in poor long-term efficacy. Consequently, there has been a public demand for a novel, rapid, reliable, safe, and affordable hair removal technique. In the last decade, laser and light-based technology for hair removal became one of the fastest growing procedures in modern cosmetic dermatology.
ELA-Max and EMLA cream are topical anesthetics that have been shown to have similar anesthetic efficacy in previous studies.
Chronic hyperkeratotic dermatitis of the palms and soles represents a severe multi-etiological problem, too often faced with ineffective or tedious topical remedies.
The addition of calcipotriol ointment to PUVA therapy for psoriasis vulgaris results in a lower total UVA dose and a faster onset of response. The addition of calcipotriol cream to PUVA, however, has not been studied.
Fungal infections of the nail are a common and chronic problem. The main pathogens responsible for onychomycosis are dermatophytes, yeasts and moulds. Despite significant improvements, approximately 20% of patients with onychomycosis still fail on antifungal therapy. The successful exploitation of drug synergy may provide a useful approach to improve cure rates.
There are many therapeutic alternatives for the management of onychocryptosis. Generally in severe cases, surgical approaches are preferred.
Laser treatment for the management of port wine stains (PWS) is well established but there are some variations in practices amongst clinicians in the UK.
Topical calcipotriol is a vitamin D3 analogue which influences keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation. Its efficacy in cutaneous lichen planus has not been well evaluated.
Classical pyoderma gangrenosum (CPG) is an uncommon, idiopathic, neutrophilic skin disease, generally associated with other skin conditions and systemic diseases, and with several treatment options.
Isotretinoin therapy and its alleged adverse psychiatric effects have received considerable media attention during the past years. The aim of this pilot study was to investigate whether there was any association between isotretinoin therapy and anxiety, depression or suicidal ideation.
Chronic idiopathic urticaria is sometimes difficult to treat, with little response to antihistamine therapy.
Ingrowing toenails are a common problem causing significant morbidity. Many of the procedures used for treating this painful condition cause considerable discomfort and have high failure rates. In recent years, phenol cauterization of the nail bed has been used increasingly.
Pruritus is one of the most common complaints among patients who visit physicians. Over-the-counter topical antipruritic medications are widely recommended by physicians and are self-administered by patients for the treatment of pruritus. However, there are few scientific controlled studies evaluating the effect of these drugs on pruritus.
Pityriasis versicolor is a common chronic superficial fungal infection of the skin.
The polycationic nanopeptide RKKRRQRRR is a fragment of HIV-Tat protein known to be a transfection enhancer. Such factors control the transfection efficiency of plasmid DNA complexed with tat peptide. However, their actions are poorly understood.
In recent years, a growing number of studies has focused on the dopamine D4 receptor gene (DRD4) as mediating the susceptibility to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). While their results are contradictory, the reason for this inconsistency remains as yet unclear.
Pharmacological and neurodevelopmental data support the idea that the gene, which codes for the 5-HT(5A) receptor is an important candidate gene for schizophrenia susceptibility. However, previous genetic studies focusing on this gene yielded conflicting results, potentially because of: (i) stratification biases of case-control association studies, (ii) genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity of schizophrenia, and (iii) variability in the loci analyzed (the 5-HT(5A) gene having many polymorphic sites).
Induction of labour is a common clinical intervention. There has been a recent rise in rates of induction of labour and wide variation between published hospital rates without obvious explanation. Clinician variation has been suggested as a reason.
Acute renal failure is a dose-limiting factor of cisplatin chemotherapy. Here, we show the protective effect of ozone oxidative preconditioning against cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction in rats. Ozone oxidative preconditioning is a prophylactic approach, which favors the antioxidant-pro-oxidant balance for preservation of the cell redox state by increasing antioxidant endogenous systems in various in vivo and in vitro experimental models.
In aromatherapy, essential oils are used as anti-inflammatory remedies, but experimental studies on their action mechanisms are very limited.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a non-invasive microorganism causing intense gastric mucosal inflammatory and immune reaction. H. pylori-induced gastric mucosal cytokine overproduction has been clearly documented previously. The stomach has a large surface area and continuous spill-over of locally produced cytokines into the blood stream is a possibility. There are few and conflicting data on circulatory proinflammatory cytokine levels in patients with H. pylori infection.
Chemokine-driven migration of inflammatory cells has been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic conditions including peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) is elevated in patients with coronary artery disease and in hypertensive patients. This study therefore investigated MCP-1 in patients with PAD.
The variable efficacy of bacillus Calmette-Gurin (Mycobacterium bovis BCG) in protecting humans against tuberculosis has prompted a search for the mechanisms through which BCG induces chemokines. In this study, our experiments were designed to determine the role of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and intracellular calcium in the production of interleukin (IL)-8, a main chemotactic factor, by human-derived monocytic cell line U937 and by a human epithelial HEp-2 cell line infected with M. bovis BCG.
Studies on peripheral benzodiazepine receptor function have yielded a diverse list of activities of which the anti-inflammatory effects need to be further examined.
In the Seychelles Child Development Main Study (SCDS), at 19 months of age, enhanced MDI scores were associated with increasing methylmercury (MeHg) exposure in higher caregiver IQ groups at several levels of family income. We performed a similar analysis of the 66-month evaluations to determine if the modifying influences of social and environmental factors were consistent with those previously observed.
Aflatoxins and hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections are important risk factors of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study assesses the population-attributable risk of these two factors, both jointly and separately, with respect to HCC.
In evaluating the effectiveness of ultrasound as a screening tool for craniosynostosis it was discovered that sonologists and sonographers needed more experience scanning and visualizing cranial sutures on ultrasound.
Three-dimensional MRI (3D-MRI) is a reliable tool for the evaluation of anatomical volumes. Volumetric measurement of the normal anterior pituitary gland in childhood has been performed in the past by 2D-MRI calculations, but has inherent inaccuracies.
Changes in renal arterial Doppler flow may identify parenchymal disease, but in newborns knowledge of normal physiological parameters is a prerequisite for correct interpretation.
Controversy exists as to whether the outcome of vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) can be prognosticated by direct radionuclide cystography (DRC).
In schizophrenia, attentional disturbance is a core feature which may not only accompany the disorder, but may precede the onset of psychiatric symptoms.
Current treatments for schizophrenia adequately treat the positive symptoms of schizophrenia but only modestly improve cognitive deficits. This review provides evidence for and against the use of selective 5-HT receptor drugs as cognition enhancing agents for schizophrenia and other disorders.
The cognitive functions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are profoundly impaired in schizophrenic patients. Although dopamine has been the major focus of schizophrenia research, norepinephrine (NE) also has marked influences on PFC cognitive functioning.
Alterations in the central cholinergic system of patients with schizophrenia such as reduced numbers of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors in the cortex and hippocampus may contribute to the cognitive impairment of schizophrenia. Therefore, pharmacological treatments that enhance central cholinergic function may be useful as cognitive enhancers in schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is characterized by a large variety of cognitive symptoms, among which information processing deficits have been extensively studied. So far, these aspects have been found to be remarkably stable and effective treatment is still lacking. Traditionally, information processing is subdivided into pre-attentive (automatic) and attentive processing. Pre-attentive processing refers to the early stages of information processing before conscious attention sets in. Two paradigms most often used to investigate pre-attentive processing are prepulse inhibition and auditory (or P(50)) gating. The advantage of these two paradigms is that they can be used in humans and animals with virtually identical methods.
The goal of this paper is to briefly overview human studies that have examined pharmacological agents designed to enhance working memory function, with the idea of providing clues as to promising avenues to follow for the development of drugs likely to enhance working memory and other cognitive processes in individuals with schizophrenia.
Behavioral and functional neuroimaging research has extensively documented the ways in which people with schizophrenia perform poorly on cognitive tasks and exhibit abnormal brain activity patterns when engaged in those tasks, even when their performance is adjusted to become similar to that of healthy controls. There is, however, substantial diversity in the way this syndrome limits a person's ability to learn and acquire skills. This review considers how functional imaging has helped improve our understanding of learning, practice, and error detection in persons with schizophrenia.
Disturbances in critical cognitive processes, such as working memory, are now regarded as core features of schizophrenia, but available pharmacological treatments produce little or no improvement in these cognitive deficits. Although other explanations are possible, these cognitive deficits appear to reflect a disturbance in executive control, the processes that facilitate complex information processing and behavior and that include context representation and maintenance, functions dependent on the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Studies in non-human primates indicate that normal working memory function depends upon appropriate GABA neurotransmission in the DLPFC, and alterations in markers of GABA neurotransmission are well documented in the DLPFC of subjects with schizophrenia.
Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) are often insulin resistant, a state that predisposes to increased atherosclerosis. Recently, it was suggested that a "vascular insulin resistance" could explain this association, causing endothelial dysfunction and hence atherosclerosis. We therefore studied the vascular insulin response in patients with CAD.
Levosimendan is a calcium sensitizer that increases the contractility of the myofilaments and is considered not to affect cardiac electrophysiology. We assessed its potential to generate cardiac arrhythmias by analysing ECG recordings from clinical studies on intravenously administered levosimendan in heart failure patients.
The ACE-D allele has been associated with cardiovascular disease. The study evaluates the relationship between the ACE-ID genotypes and diastolic function in healthy subjects after 6 years of follow-up.
Immunization programmes are ethically defensible and society has a significant role to play in providing vaccination against measles and safeguarding herd immunity to optimize its individuals' capabilities. Since preventive actions interfere with individuals who consider themselves as healthy, public health strategies - as distinct from advice in a clinical consultation - require something approaching certainty as to benefits and possible side effects of an intervention. The principle of individual autonomy, a fundamental value in bioethics, often makes discussions covering ethical issues in public health interventions difficult and non-productive as to practical solutions. In encounters intended to provide information on vaccination, discussions regarding risks tend to simplify the issue into an individual one: either the child gets measles or not, or is affected by side effects or not.
A study was undertaken to investigate the sociodemographic distribution of workplace exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) in a Swedish working population sample.
Psychiatric epidemiology can further public health practice and inform mental health policy through the development of methodologies that provide rapid and cost efficient estimation of the prevalence of mental disorders at the local, regional, and population levels.
Relatively little international work has examined whether mental health resource allocation matches need. This study aimed to determine whether adult mental health resources in Australia are being distributed equitably.
Psychiatric disorders as defined by DSM-IV are found to be highly prevalent in the general population. However, little is known about aspects defining the burden caused by different disorders.
We sought to assess the prevalence of major depression in a region of sub-Saharan Africa severely affected by HIV, using symptom and functional criteria as measured with locally validated instruments.
Common mental illness in Black Africans and Black Caribbeans has been relatively little studied in the UK. Previous studies of the detection of psychological problems by General Practitioners (GPs) in these groups have been inconclusive.
The majority of women with severe mental illness are mothers. Little is known about their experiences and the extent to which their needs are met.
The aim of the study was to find out the validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) and to determine the optimum cut-off value for postnatal depression.
Many studies have described associations between childhood psychiatric disorder and characteristics of the child, and their family, school and neighbourhood, but few studies have studied them simultaneously. Also, most investigators have failed to allow for the extent to which different exposures are correlated, or for clustering at different levels of observation. Our objective was to establish which correlates were independently associated with psychiatric disorder.
Most earlier studies of hopelessness as a risk factor for suicidal behavior were based on either clinical or restricted samples. Using a longitudinal study design with a community sample of more than 3,000 participants, we aimed to examine if hopelessness was a long-term predictor of suicidal behaviors.
This study examined substance use and abuse, including nicotine and alcohol, in subjects who were at various stages of a medical career in Dokuz Eyll University Medical School in Turkey. Anxiety and depression levels were also assessed in order to determine the relationship of the substance use and anxiety and depression.
Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine with a moleculary weight of 18 kDa, that was first identified as being produced by Th2 cells. It appears to have anti-inflammatory action by diminishing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines produced by Th1 cells. IL-10 also regulates the differentiation and proliferation of several immune cells such as T cells, B cells, natural killer cells, antigen-presenting cells, mast cells and granulocytes. Recent data suggest, however, that IL-10 also has immunostimulatory properties with important consequences on the prognosis of disease. In this study, we demonstrate the importance of injection of hematopoietic fetal liver cells transduced with the human IL-10 (hIL-10) gene into an allogenic recipient subsequently transplanted with allogenic skin grafts. The immaturity of stem cells and precursor cells from fetal liver and their transient survival in the host, due to the production of hIL-10, may afford 'prope' tolerance. It also explains the lack of graft-vs.-host reaction (GvHR) and the delay in rejection of the specific donor skin grafts after virtual disappearance of donor hematopoietic cells.
Previous studies have shown that portal venous transfusion (PVT) induces a state of immunosuppression, and Kupffer cells may be involved in the mechanism.
Cardiac valve injury caused by non-penetrating chest trauma is unusual but may occur even after moderate injuries.
Methylprednisolone (MP) is often used to treat optic nerve injury. However, its effects in experimental crush injury have not been extensively evaluated.
Epilepsy surgery involves well-planned discrete injury to the brain and may create visual deficits. This study seeks to evaluate the indirect effects of temporal lobectomy on brain metabolism by correlating visual field defects and glucose metabolism in the visual cortex of patients before and after undergoing epilepsy surgery.
The annual incidence of tuberculous meningitis (TM) is unknown. TM is a disease that still often results in residual sequelae, and has a mortality rate ranging between 15 and 51%. Experience of countries such as Turkey where drug-resistant tuberculosis and TM are prevalent is important.
In 1999, the threshold anisometropic hyperopia for photoscreening toddlers and preschoolers was determined to be 1.50 D. We compared crescent size from induced anisometropic hyperopia using three commercially available photoscreeners and compared them with miniature digital video cameras, which have a flash-to-lens dimension similar to two of the three photoscreeners. Photoscreeners were compared with a remote autorefractor.
Breakthroughs in the development of effective medications for a number of psychiatric disorders have led to increased use of these compounds in the treatment of children.
Generalized social anxiety disorder is a highly prevalent anxiety disorder with deleterious effects on social and family relationships, as well as work performance. We report the results of a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of fluvoxamine controlled release (CR) to placebo in patients with generalized social anxiety disorder.
Boards of nursing protect the public by establishing requirements for safe entry-level practice and assessing ongoing nursing competence. Some boards have mandated accumulation of CE hours as a means of assuring continued competence. The use of CE for this purpose has been controversial because no link had been established between CE and nurse competencies.
The ineffectiveness of microbiological methods in the lower respiratory tract infections are caused by anachronistic sampling methods. Authors checked the protected specimen brush effectiveness and those of the influencing factors.
Long-term parenteral nutrition is effective in the treatment of intestinal failure. Equally, the results of intestinal transplantation (IT) are promising. The choice of one or other form of treatment depends on the balance between the advantages and disadvantages of each. Based on these premises, we analyzed the outcome of home parenteral nutrition (HPN) for intestinal failure in our patients.
Atopic dermatitis is favored by exogenous factors, such as air pollution interacting with a genetic predisposition.
The indication of distinct imaging studies in pediatric head trauma, and especially the use of skull radiography, is controversial.
Measuring the quality of care in emergency departments requires tools to quantify the most important aspects in the care process. The quality indicator is the quantitative measure used in quality assurance.
The Consolidated Standards for Reporting Trials (CONSORT) are recommendations for improving the quality of reports of randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
Excessive exercise has long been observed to be a problematic behavior of many patients with anorexia nervosa (AN). However, many questions remain as to the exact role exercise plays in this disorder. In particular, it has been suggested that exercise holds "addictive" properties in persons with AN, but that remains to be demonstrated.
Ligasure haemorrhoidectomy is an effective treatment for prolapsing haemorrhoids, however, concerns exist regarding potential damage to the anal sphincters.
Increased telomerase activity can be found in almost 90% of colorectal tumours. We aim to describe the preliminary results for quantification in plasma of hTERT mRNA in colorectal cancer patients.
Pyoderma gangrenosum is a rare idiopathic skin disorder associated with other diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease. The commonest site is the skin, but sometimes it can occur in the parastomal region. Most of these cases respond to treatment with systemic corticosteroids and cyclosporin or local Kenalog injections.
During the past decades results from rectal cancer surgery have improved considerably regarding risk of local recurrence and survival. Two main paradigm changes are considered to be the cause for this: the introduction of total mesorectal excision (TME) and the increasing use of radiotherapy. However, rectal cancer surgery is associated with an unacceptably high frequency of complications of which anastomotic leak is one of the most severe ones. The hypothesis was raised that the choice of stapler influenced the leakage rates.
VEGF seems to have a protective role on cardiac microcirculation, but no data are available on its action on cardiac function and morphology in diabetic patients. We sought to test the hypothesis that circulating VEGF levels could influence the cardiac performance in type 2 diabetic hypertensive patients.
Influenza virus-associated encephalopathy (IE) is suggested to be a proinflammatory cytokine-related disease.
The Canadian CT head rule has been developed to identify which adults with minor head injuries require computed tomography (CT). This is hoped will reduce the number of CT scans performed for minor head injury in North America. It was unclear whether applying the rule would reduce or even increase the number of CT scans requested in UK emergency departments.
In 1998, the New York State Department of Health released guidelines governing the provision of HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (HIV PEP) after adolescent and adult sexual assault. This study sought to examine the extent of HIV PEP provision in a New York City paediatric emergency department (ED) after the release of these guidelines.
Singapore has a mandatory helmet law for motorcyclists. This study aimed to determine the injuries sustained by helmeted motorcyclists presenting to the emergency Department (ED).
Trauma strikes unexpectedly, frequently in the young and fit. When trauma victims arrive in the emergency room all possible steps, including surgery, are often undertaken in an attempt to achieve a successful outcome. However, for patients presenting in extremis, with cardiac arrest or exsanguinating blunt chest injury, the results of resuscitation and emergency surgery are extremely poor.
The aim of this study was to detect carbapenemases in imipenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii isolates obtained in the microbiology department of a Basque Country Public Health Service hospital over a period of 19 months, and to genetically characterize the resistant clones.
A nationwide multicenter study was performed in Spain to evaluate the clonal diversity and antimicrobial susceptibility of Acinetobacter baumannii clinical isolates.
Since effective treatment against HIV has become available, HIV infection surveillance is focussed not only on AIDS cases, but also on new cases of HIV infection. One of the methods used for this task is compilation of case records. We report the results of 18 years of recording information on new diagnoses of HIV (1985-2002) in the area of Salamanca (Spain).
This study investigates the indications for antifungal treatment in patients admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) in Spain and determines the frequency at which each individual drug is prescribed.
To investigate the susceptibility of group B streptococci (GBS) to macrolides and lincosamides and assess alternatives for intrapartum chemoprophylaxis in women allergic to penicillin and colonized by a GBS strain resistant to these antibiotics.
Language is an important tool in the communication of pain. The most widely known verbal pain assessment tool is the McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ). The MPQ scoring procedure implies equal weights for different pain describing adjectives with the same rank value.
The beliefs of people with chronic pain (service users) about the importance of treatment components offered through both multidisciplinary and other types of chronic pain programmes are not widely examined in the literature.
There has been growing empirical examination of the co-occurrence of pain and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, and existing evidence suggests that the symptoms associated with each have a close association. To date, however, the association has only been examined within samples of mostly male participants.
The objective of the study is to determine the prevalence of hepatitis B or C chronic infection, and hepatitis A or E immunity among pregnant women from Gijn, as well as their clinical and epidemiological antecedents.
Variceal hemorrhage occurs in 25 to 35% of cirrhotic patients and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality and elevated hospital costs. Endoscopic exploration of gastroesophageal varices (GEV) in cirrhotic patients increases costs and involves a certain degree of invasiveness and discomfort for patients. The association between the presence of GEV and spleen size, liver function and platelet count is controversial. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation between liver function, evaluated by Child-Pugh (Ch-P) classification, platelet count (PC) and spleen volume index (SVI) with the presence of GEV in patients with cirrhosis managed in the outpatient setting.
The objective is to compare the performance of the MHI-5 and GHQ-12, both measures of general mental health. Therefore, we studied the relationship of the GHQ-12 and MHI-5 with sociodemographic characteristics, self-reported visits to general practice and mental health care, and with diagnoses made by the general practitioner.
Ghrelin, an endogenous ligand for growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R), is known to increase food intake in lean humans and rodents. In addition, ghrelin levels are increased by fasting in lean rodents and are elevated before meals in humans, suggesting an important role for ghrelin in meal initiation. However, in obese human, circulating ghrelin levels were found to be significantly reduced as compared to lean individuals.
Natural killer (NK) cells are a key component of innate immunity; their activity is modulated by cytokines and hormones and is influenced by diet. In obesity, a higher risk of cancer and infections has been demonstrated. Studies on NK cell activity have yielded inconsistent results; NK cell sensitivity to modulators has not been assessed before.
Bipolar disorder is often only partially treated by medication alone, which has led to recent developments in the adjunctive psychological treatment of bipolar disorder. This paper aims to examine the current evidence for effectiveness of psychological interventions for bipolar disorder and to identify issues for future research in this area.
In attempting to understand the familial basis of depression, most studies have focused on broad indices of depression and mood change. Broad indices may not adequately reflect the heritable basis of depression because of an unexplored possibility that not all symptoms are heritable.
Although residual symptoms after remission from depression are common and predict early relapse, little is known about the impact of residual symptoms on longer-term clinical course of depression or social functioning.
Several sleep laboratory studies suggest sleep abnormalities in bipolar disorder. However, this is the first study to compare remitted bipolar subjects with controls on actigraphic and subjective sleep parameters in a naturalistic setting over 5 nights.
No study has reported yet on the prevalence of both comorbid DSM-IV axis I and personality disorders in a large cohort of OCD patients, and little is known about differences in clinical characteristics between OCD patients with and without comorbid symptoms.
Comorbidity between adult social anxiety disorder and major depression is extensive. Considerably less information about this relationship is available among youth.
Depression treatment by General Practitioners (GPs) and patient outcomes improved significantly after a comprehensive 20-h training program of GPs. This study examines whether the effects on patient outcomes are caused by the improvements in the process of care.
To date, there has been only limited information on factors associated with seasonal changes in mood and behaviour experienced by a random sample of Australians living in a continental temperate climate region. This paper identifies socio-demographic, psychological and personality factors associated with reporting higher levels of seasonality.
The suicidal process is a common underlying perspective on suicidal behaviour, but the process has hardly been empirically studied. This study investigates the process from suicidal thoughts to suicidal planning among physicians; an occupational group with a raised risk of suicide. The process is studied in two ways: First, predictors at medical school of postgraduate suicidal planning are identified. Second, the transition from suicidal thoughts to planning over three to four years is explored.
Children of depressed mothers are at elevated risk to develop behavioral problems. Besides maternal depression, other risk factors like interpersonal functioning, are discussed. The object of this study was to investigate the predictive value of the maternal variables depression, partnership, social support, and parenting for internal and external behavioral problems of the children.
The Seasonal Pattern Assessment Questionnaire (SPAQ) is a frequently used screening instrument in the research on Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). Nevertheless, studies on its reliability and validity are relatively scarce. In the present study the reliability and the contrast validity of the SPAQ are investigated.
Neurological soft signs (NSS) have been reported to be more prevalent in patients with schizophrenia compared to other psychiatric and non-psychiatric controls. However, this issue in bipolar I disorder seems to be understudied.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is common in refugees but its association with longer-term psychosocial dysfunction remains unclear. We examined whether a subgroup of refugees with comorbid PTSD and depression were at particularly high risk of disability. We also investigated whether specific trauma experiences were linked to this comorbid pattern.
Depression is generally regarded as a serious, incapacitating illness. Although effective treatment strategies are available, timely recognition remains a stumbling block. We investigated the rates of health service uptake among depressed people and the specific depressive symptoms associated with service use, after adjustment for other illness characteristics and sociodemographic variables.
(E)-4-Hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) is a highly electrophilic end-product of lipid peroxidation. Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) is an endogenous inhibitor of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS). ADMA is metabolised by dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH). DDAH contains a nucleophilic cysteine residue in its active site. There is an increase in lipid peroxidation in major depression. Major depression is associated with the development of coronary heart disease (CHD) and greatly increases morbidity and mortality. There is an increase in circulating ADMA in CHD and vascular risk factors.
Depression increases mortality of coronary patients, and autonomic dysfunction has been proposed as an explanation for this association.
This study aims to investigate whether the risk of recurrence following lithium discontinuation is less than reported in discontinuation of a successful, long-term prophylaxis in bipolar patients.
The need to develop supplementary or alternative treatments for seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is underscored by the significant minority (47%) of SAD patients that is refractory to light therapy, the persistence of residual symptoms despite light treatment, and poor long-term compliance with light use. Because preliminary studies suggest that cognitive and behavioral factors are involved in SAD, cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) warrants investigation as a possible treatment option.
Sensitivity to the panicogenic effects of cholecystokinin-tetrapeptide (CCK-4) is enhanced in panic disorder patients relative to normal controls (NC). In the present study, we determined whether sensitivity to CCK-4 is enhanced in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) with no history of panic attacks. We also determined whether CCK-4 would exacerbate depressive symptoms.
Maternal asthma has been reported to increase the risk of preeclampsia, preterm deliveries, and lower-birth-weight infants, but the mechanisms of this effect are not defined.
The distal lung is an important site of inflammation in asthma. Maximal midexpiratory flows and the ratio of maximal:partial flows are purported to reflect distal lung function.
Psychologic stress modifies immune function and cytokine production.
During conventional daytime studies of beta(2)-agonists, 1 puff of a metered-dose inhaler often produces a near maximum bronchodilator response. Consequently, the US Food and Drug Administration-approved dose of albuterol is only 1 to 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours.
Chronic cough often lasts for more than 1 year and is associated with airway inflammation. The effect of inhaled corticosteroids on symptom severity and inflammatory mediator levels in these patients is unknown.
A disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM) 33 has been implicated as an asthma susceptibility gene by using a positional cloning approach. However, genetic linkage of asthma phenotypes to chromosome 20p13 (the location of ADAM33) has not been observed in most asthma genome scans, and it is unclear whether these associations with ADAM33 are broadly generalizable.
Sublingual-swallow immunotherapy in house dust mite-related asthma has a good safety profile and improves respiratory function and bronchial hyperreactivity. Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) is envisaged as a promising viral vector for expressing large quantity of foreign proteins in cucurbit species.
Alpha and beta-tryptase levels in serum are clinical tools for the evaluation of systemic anaphylaxis and systemic mastocytosis. Basophils and mast cells are known to produce these proteins.
Tachykinins are present in sensory nerves and in nonneuronal cells like macrophages. Human data suggest a role for these peptides in asthma, but the exact role of tachykinins and their receptors in allergic airway inflammation is still a matter of debate.
Most chronic inflammatory diseases are well controlled by glucocorticoids. However, a minority of patients fails to respond adequately to this treatment.
Eosinophils develop from CD34+ bone marrow progenitors, and evidence increasingly suggests that these progenitors are recruited to the airways in atopic asthmatics after allergen challenge. Moreover, it has been shown that the number of CD34+ progenitors in bronchial tissue correlates with asthma severity. To date, however, little is known about how these cells are recruited into the airways.
Recently, fungal elements were suspected to be the causative agent of chronic rhinosinusitis, and benefits of topical amphotericin B therapy have been reported.
Fatal reactions associated with skin testing and injection immunotherapy have not been surveyed in North America since 1989.
Treatment with local glucocorticoids (GCs) decreases symptoms and the size of nasal polyps. This might depend on the downregulation of proinflammatory genes, as well as the upregulation of anti-inflammatory genes.
In animal models administration of immunostimulatory DNA sequences preferentially elicits T(H)1-dominated (type 1-dominated) immunity and can inhibit developing or ongoing T(H)2 (type 2) responses.
Eosinophil accumulation at sites of allergic inflammation is largely regulated by chemokines and lipid mediators released by a variety of cells of the local microenvironment. Recent studies have shown that pollen grains, apart from their function as allergen carriers, are a rich exogenous source of eicosanoid-like lipid mediators that are rapidly released on contact with the aqueous phase and thus may contribute to the generation of local inflammatory responses.
Exposure to mouse allergen is a known cause of asthma in occupational settings and exhibits high prevalence and association with allergic sensitization in inner-city home environments. It has never been characterized on a nationally representative scale.
Allergens from furred animals are brought to school mainly via clothing of pet owners. Asthmatic children allergic to cat have more symptoms when attending a class with many cat owners, and some schools allocate specific resources to allergen avoidance measures.
The bioreactivity of isocyanate, a leading cause of occupational asthma, has led to uncertainty regarding the chemical's antigenicity and mechanisms that elicit immunopathology.
Planetree pollen allergy is a clinical disorder affecting human populations in cities of the United States and Western Europe, but little is known about its relevant allergens.
Little is known about the molecular properties of chenopod allergens. Recently, profilin and 2 EF-hand calcium-binding protein (polcalcin) have been shown to play a role in chenopod pollinosis.
Celiac disease is considered to arise from an inappropriate T-cell-mediated immune response against ingested gluten in genetically predisposed people, whereas the T(H)2-type lymphocytes are mostly involved in IgE-mediated reactions. The matter of possible coexistence of T(H)1- and T(H)2-type diseases is still debated.
Human studies have demonstrated that allergen immunotherapy induces memory suppressive responses and IL-10 production by allergen-specific T cells. Previously, we established a mouse model in which allergen immunotherapy was effective in the suppression of allergen-induced asthma manifestations.
Although green tea polyphenol catechin has been reported to have antiallergic and anti-inflammatory activities, the precise mechanisms of its effect on the immune system have been poorly investigated.
Since many offenders have drug problems, investigators have proposed that drug testing and treatment should be an integral part of probation. In 1994, the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) funded a demonstration project designed to integrate drug treatment with traditional supervision services. As part of this demonstration a new procedure called 'seamless' probation was set up in which treatment providers were co-located with probation officers and probation officers coordinated offenders' participation in treatment.
Depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide, but treatment rates are low, particularly for minority patients.
Clozapine is currently restricted to patients who have failed at least two trials of other antipsychotic medications because of concerns that its use as a first-line agent would lead to greater mortality, mainly through agranulocytosis.
Recent findings have begun to provide a basis for a causal link between herpesviruses and aggressive periodontitis. One theory is that herpesviruses cooperate with specific bacteria in the etiopathogenesis of the disease. This study examined whether the presence of herpesviruses [human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) type 1, herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 and 2] is associated with the presence of putative pathogenic bacteria (Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia, Tannerella forsythia, Campylobacter rectus, Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans) in aggressive periodontitis lesions.
Human beta-defensins (hBDs) are antimicrobial peptides which contribute to host innate immunity by disrupting the membrane integrity of a broad spectrum of microorganisms.
The hemoglobin-binding domain (HA2) of the Porphyromonasgingivalis gingipains and hemagglutinins strongly binds hemoglobin and hemin and is thought to play a key role in acquisition of this essential metabolite by the microorganism.
Periodontitis has been associated with a moderate systemic inflammatory response. Successful periodontal therapy could decrease serum inflammatory parameters. The aim of this report was to explore the outcomes of periodontal therapy in terms of changes in C-reactive protein (CRP)-associated cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk as defined in a recent American Heart Association (AHA) consensus conference.
Lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) functions as a crucial molecule in innate host defense responses to bacterial challenge through neutralization of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and activation of cellular responses.
The treatment of cyclosporin A triggers an early bone loss and gingival overgrowth. There is a lack of studies exploring the effects of long-term cyclosporin A therapy on alveolar bone homeostasis and gingival tissue.
Porphyromonas gingivalis, a black-pigmented, gram-negative anaerobe, is found in periodontitis lesions and its presence in subgingival plaque significantly increases the risk for periodontitis. We have previously shown that patients with aggressive forms of periodontitis that are seropositive for P. gingivalis have less attachment loss than those that are seronegative. This suggests that antibody reactive with antigens of P. gingivalis may be protective and decrease disease severity and extent. Recent studies in the murine abscess model and in the host antibody response in chronic periodontitis patients suggest that antibody reactive with P. gingivalis hemagglutinin may be an important protective antibody response.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are proteolytic enzymes capable of degrading most macromolecules of the extracellular matrix. It has been assumed that an association exists between MMP activity and periodontal disease progression, but the precise role of MMPs in disease progression is still not fully clarified. Batimastat, or BB-94, is a synthetic broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor not previously examined in periodontal research. If there is an association between MMP activity and periodontal disease progression, then batimastat might be expected to reduce the progression of experimental periodontal disease in rats.
Rheumatoid arthritis is characterised by inflammatory synovitis, articular destruction, and accelerated atherogenesis. HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarylcoenzyme A) reductase inhibitors (statins) mediate clinically significant vascular risk reduction in patients without inflammatory disease and might have immunomodulatory function. We postulated that statins might reduce inflammatory factors in rheumatoid arthritis and modify surrogates for vascular risk.
The Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-term Use Evaluation (VALUE) trial was designed to test the hypothesis that for the same blood-pressure control, valsartan would reduce cardiac morbidity and mortality more than amlodipine in hypertensive patients at high cardiovascular risk.
Environmental exposures contribute to the global burden of disease. We have estimated the burden of disease attributable to outdoor and indoor air pollution, inadequate water and sanitation, lead exposure, and injury among European children and adolescents.
Dengue, Japanese encephalitis, tick-borne encephalitis, yellow fever, and West Nile viruses cause substantial morbidity and mortality each year. Modern transportation and the relaxation of mosquito-control measures are largely responsible for the increase of disease caused by flaviviruses. Without effective antiviral drugs, vaccination offers the best chance of decreasing the incidence of these diseases, and live virus vaccines are the most promising and cost effective. However, flaviviruses can recombine, which raises the possibility of recombination between a vaccine strain and wild-type virus resulting in a new virus with potentially undesirable properties.
Recently, Arunee Sabchareon and colleagues reported up to 90% seroconversion rates in a phase I trial of live-attenuated dengue-virus vaccines in children (Pediatr Infect Dis J 2004; 23: 99-109). Other live flavivirus vaccines have also been tested against dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and West Nile viruses. Thus far, efficacy seems promising.
Abnormal interactions of copper or iron in the brain with metal-binding proteins (such as amyloid-beta peptide [Abeta] or neuromelanin) that lead to oxidative stress have emerged as important potential mechanisms in brain ageing and neurodegenerative disorders. Although a controlled study of desferrioxamine in Alzheimer's disease(AD) had some promising results, concerns about toxicity and brain delivery have limited trials of traditional chelators. The therapeutic significance of metal dysregulation in neurodegenerative disorders has remained difficult to test.
Clioquinol was identified as a prototype metal-protein-attenuating compound (MPAC). In a blinded and controlled 9 week study of a mouse model of AD, oral clioquinol decreased brain Abeta by 49% without systemic toxicity. The concentrations of copper and zinc in the brain rose by about 15% in mice treated with clioquinol. Two other studies in mice showed that the raising of brain copper concentrations through diet or genetics could lower amyloid load and increase survival. A recent placebo-controlled trial in 36 patients with AD showed that clioquinol (250-750 mg daily) reduced plasma concentrations of Abeta(1-42), raised plasma concentrations of zinc, and-in a subset with moderate dementia-slowed cognitive decline over 24 weeks. Two recent experiments also showed the neuroprotective effects of iron chelation in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease. WHERE NEXT?: The experimental and transgenic-animal studies of metal-protein interactions are convincing but do not provide conclusive answers either about causality or whether this strategy will protect against neurodegeneration in human beings. The finding that clioquinol could modulate plasma concentrations of amyloid and cognition in patients with AD needs to be interpreted cautiously, but is an important first step. Clioquinol was withdrawn because of concerns of its association with subacute myelo-optic neuropathy in Japan; therefore, any additional studies with this drug will likely be small and closely monitored proof-of-concept studies. The development of optimal second-generation MPACs is a desirable goal and may permit greater insights into the significance of metal-protein interactions across several neurodegenerative disorders.
Osteoporosis is a common problem in postmenopausal period. Recent studies have suggested that endogenous and exogenous androgens may influence the bone mineral density in women. There is limited data about the effect of circulating androgens on bone density in postmenopausal women.
Although overt hyperthyroidism is a well known cause of bone loss, systemic effects of subclinical hyperthyroidism (SH) are still a matter of debate.
Understanding the association between use of antipsychotics and onset of diabetes.
Primary amoebic meningoencephalitis (PAM) is a very rare but deadly infection of the central nervous system. Since the disease was first identified in 1965, fewer than 200 cases have been observed worldwide.
Children's exposure to violence in the media remains a source of public health concern; however, violence in video games rated T (for "Teen") by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) has not been quantified.
This study investigates the clinical performance of routine 201Tl gated single photon emission computed tomographic (201Tl GSPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging. Equilibrium radionuclide angiography (ERNA) was used as the standard for comparison.
Thyrotoxicosis is associated with significant morbidity, therefore adequate control of the disease is paramount. The outcome of treatment of thyrotoxicosis using radioiodine shows variable failure rates depending, amongst other things, on the administered activity of radioiodine and the use of anti-thyroid drugs. Thus, management should follow an evidence based protocol, which has a low failure rate.
Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) is recognized to have a major role in oncological imaging. Over recent years there has been a steady increase in the use of gamma camera PET (GCPET) systems as these are less expensive than dedicated PET scanners and facilitate the full range of nuclear medicine imaging. However, there is ongoing debate about their application and usefulness in the management of oncological patients.
It is well known that blood glucose level affects the uptake of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) in tumours. Thus, the action of steroids on glucose metabolism may alter blood glucose levels and may affect FDG uptake in tumours in patients treated with steroids. To clarify this point, we determined the effects of steroids on FDG uptake in tumours in a rat model of a malignant tumour.
For pretargeting and other nuclear medicine applications, it may eventually be useful to radiolabel phosphodiamidate morpholinos (MORFs) with therapeutic radionuclides such as 188Re. However, by preparing 188Re-MORFs labelled conventionally with MAG3 as chelator, we have observed unacceptable levels of oxidation to perrhenate in vitro and in vivo in mice.
The workforce of the UK Atomic Energy Authority has been the subject of several previous epidemiological investigations.
Job-exposure matrices (JEMs) applicable to the general population are usually constructed by using only the expertise of specialists.
Most epidemiological studies on adverse health effects among women in relation to occupational magnetic field exposure have been based on information about men's exposure.
Workers exposed to sewage may have an increased risk of infection by Helicobacter pylori and hepatitis E virus (HEV).
Over the past two decades there has been a substantial increase in environmental levels of palladium, platinum, and rhodium, the platinum group elements (PGEs), due to the widespread use of catalytic converters for automotive traction.
Utilization of mammography has increased steadily since the early 1990s. It is now important to expand the attention given to obtaining repeat examination. This study examines the prevalence and cross-sectional correlates of repeat mammography, among women aged 55-79, using a 12-month (N = 3,502) and a 24-month interval (N = 3,491).
Screening for melanoma by whole-body clinical skin examination or skin self-examination may improve early diagnosis of melanoma. As part of the first phase of a community-based randomised controlled trial of screening for melanoma, this study examined the prevalence of skin screening intentions and associated factors in a population at high risk for skin cancer.
Studies explaining educational differences in health often employ current smoking as a mediator. To what extent does lifetime smoking mediate the association between education and self-reported health better than current smoking?
Self-reported data are often used to determine cancer screening test utilization, but self-report may be inaccurate.
Little is known about acceptance of skin cancer risk-reduction practices and attitudes among individuals with a family history of melanoma. The purpose of this study was to examine engagement in and correlates of sun protection, total cutaneous examination (TCE), and skin self-examination (SSE) among first-degree relatives (FDR) of individuals diagnosed with malignant melanoma (MM).
Mammography screening can involve subsequent work-up to determine a final screening outcome. Understanding the likelihood of different events that follow initial screening is important if women and their health care providers are to be accurately informed about the screening process.
Results are reported from a randomized trial designed to increase the accuracy of perceived breast cancer risk among callers to the NCI's Cancer Information Service (CIS) (n = 392).
The relationship between obesity and physical function is not well understood. Physical activity may be a key factor impacting on the relationship between obesity and physical function.
Given limited research, we investigated patient reports of processes of care related to screening follow-up, timing of result notification, communication issues, and adherence following an abnormal mammogram or Pap test.
This article describes the results of studies on the barriers and benefits of cervical cancer screening from the perspective of women, men, and health providers in five Latin American countries and compares them to other findings from the literature.
The need exists to educate and motivate medically disadvantaged Latinas to engage in regular mammography screening to reduce their high breast cancer (BC) mortality risk due to the illness' late detection.
The objective of this study is to weigh the risks of moderate alcohol consumption against its benefits and, as a result, to derive tolerable upper alcohol intake levels (TUALs) for the German adult population.
We analyzed the relation between selected lifestyles and diseases and the risk of non-fatal acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in women in Northern Italy.
The influence of neighbourhood and individual factors on self-reported health was investigated.
Only little is known about factors that influence the smokers' propensity to start smoking cessation therapy and stay within such programs.
This study examined the effects of acculturation on health behaviors among Korean-Americans in California compared to Koreans in Seoul.
To prevent obesity, the physical activity of youth should be increased. Since time for school physical education has declined and curricular interventions have had limited effects, alternative non-curriculum approaches need to be tested.
Small body size at birth is a risk factor for Type 2 diabetes. We investigated whether regular exercise is related to lower rates of glucose intolerance in individuals with a small body size at birth and whether birth size affects exercise habits in adulthood.
Although acupressure has been reported to be effective in managing various types of pain, its efficacy in relieving pain associated with low back pain (LBP) remains unclear. The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of acupressure with that of physical therapy in reducing low back pain.
The differences of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) and tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) between maximal treadmill and deep-water running have not been reported. The purpose of this investigation was to compare u-PA and t-PA levels during maximal treadmill and deep-water running.
Physical inactivity has been linked with chronic disease and obesity in most western populations. However, prevalence of inactivity, health beliefs, and knowledge of the risks of inactivity have rarely been assessed across a wide range of developed and developing countries.
Depression commonly occurs after nonfatal cardiac events and is associated with adverse health outcomes.
There is a large body of epidemiologic evidence linking abdominal obesity to cardiovascular diseases. Abdominal adiposity is an important component of insulin resistance syndrome.
There is a paucity of research on bidi use in the US and the few studies conducted have focused solely on adolescents. This article describes patterns and explores factors associated with bidi use among young adults, aged 18-24.
Low intakes or blood levels of eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids (EPA + DHA) are independently associated with increased risk of death from coronary heart disease (CHD). In randomized secondary prevention trials, fish or fish oil have been demonstrated to reduce total and CHD mortality at intakes of about 1 g/day. Red blood cell (RBC) fatty acid (FA) composition reflects long-term intake of EPA + DHA. We propose that the RBC EPA + DHA (hereafter called the Omega-3 Index) be considered a new risk factor for death from CHD.
Dietary fish oil promotes bone formation in healthy states, but its effect during insulin deficiency or nutrient restriction is unclear.
Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic liver disease with autoimmune features but uncertain aetiology. Increased risk of PBC among relatives of patients may reflect common environmental factors, or inherited immunogenetic susceptibility. Associations between PBC and other autoimmune diseases have been reported, but their true extent and pattern is unknown.
Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) has three different presentations: chronic, acute and asymptomatic.
HIV-associated focal brain lesions (HFBL) are caused by opportunistic infections, neoplasms, or cerebrovascular diseases. In developed countries, toxoplasma encephalitis (TE) is the most frequent cause, followed by primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL). Guidelines based on these causes however are poorly suited to developing countries, where treatable infections predominate as causes of HFBL.
Broad-spectrum antibiotics, particularly intravenous cephalosporins, are associated with Clostridium difficile diarrhoea. Diarrhoea due to C. difficile is a growing problem in hospitals, especially among elderly patients.
Current prevalence estimates of chronic leg ulceration are frequently based on studies from the 1980s. During the last decade, major changes have occurred in the application of evidence-based practice to this condition.
Our past studies have shown that cigarette smoke inhibits oviductal functioning in vivo and in vitro. The goals in this study were to identify pyrazine derivatives in cigarette smoke solutions that inhibit ciliary beat frequency, oocyte pickup rate, and infundibular smooth muscle contraction in the hamster oviduct and to determine their lowest observable adverse effect levels (LOAELs) using in vitro bioassays.
The aim of this work was to describe the variables associated to silent ischemia in patients with reversible perfusion defects in poststress myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.
Exposure to indoor allergens has already been shown to occur in many public places, including workplaces, in several countries. Aim of this study was to measure the levels of house dust mites, cat and cockroach allergens in indoor workplaces (offices and archives) in Italy and to evaluate the possible relationships between allergen levels and building characteristics, type of ventilation, indoor relative humidity and temperature.
Concern among Scots gastroenterologists about alcohol related illness prompted this inpatient prevalence study during the winter of 2000-01.
The changes to out of hours care provided by General Practitioners have led to wide variation in the types and costs of out of hours care across the country.
Primary care research often involves clustered samples in which subjects are randomized at a group level but analyzed at an individual level. Analyses that do not take this clustering into account may report significance where none exists. This article explores the causes, consequences, and implications of cluster data.
Hypertension is often uncontrolled. One reason might be physicians' reticence to modify therapy in response to single office measurements of vital signs.
We wanted to examine the accuracy of family physicians' screening for diabetic retinopathy using standardized criteria and a nonmydriatic ophthalmoscope.
We wanted to determine whether a saline flush during vasectomy would reduce the time needed to reach azoospermia.
The accurate recognition of patient pain is a crucial, but sometimes difficult, task in medical care. This study explored factors related to the physician's diagnosis of pain in primary care patients.
We undertook a study to understand how women who are victims of intimate partner violence (IPV) want physicians to manage these abusive relationships in the primary care office.
Effective use of over-the-counter (OTC) medications depends on purchasers' knowledge of their indications. This study examines consumer knowledge regarding the urinary tract analgesic phenazopyridine, which recently became available without prescription.
We wanted to determine the importance of factors in primary care physicians' choice of specialist when referring patients and to compare importance ratings by physicians' race and sex.
We wanted to explore the beliefs and practices of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) practitioners.
We undertook a literature review to produce evidence-based recommendations for nonsurgical family physician management of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS).
Recent research has provided a preliminary sketch of the neurologic underpinnings of emotional processing involving specialized contributions of limbic and cortical brain regions. Electrophysiologic, functional imaging, and Wada test data have suggested positive, approach-related emotions are associated with left cerebral hemisphere regions, whereas negative, withdrawal-related emotions appear to be more aligned with right hemisphere mechanisms.
Developmental spelling deficits are much less investigated than reading deficits. Based on the dual-model approach, studies of English-speaking subjects describe a surface and a phonological dysgraphia. In languages with shallow orthographies, there is evidence of surface and phonological dyslexia, but no data are available for dysgraphia.
Conventional and atypical antipsychotics have different affinities for D2 receptors, and these receptors are principally located in the striatum. Given that this cerebral structure was previously found to play a major role in procedural learning, the antipsychotic treatment in schizophrenia may be determinant for the procedural learning profile of these patients.
Although suggestions have been made concerning the management of patients with dissociative seizures, no studies have previously evaluated the systematic use of cognitive behavioral therapy in the treatment of this disorder.
Case studies of dural arteriovenous fistulas primarily describe global cognitive changes like dementia, but detailed neurocognitive evaluations of dural arteriovenous fistula patients are rarely reported.
Wound-healing outcomes applying standardized protocols have typically been measured within controlled clinical trials, not natural settings. Standardized protocols of wound care have been validated for clinical use, creating an opportunity to measure the resulting outcomes.
Although clinical practice guidelines are widely accepted as "best practices," provider compliance remains low.
Primary percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) in acute coronary syndrome include coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and placing stent in occluded coronary artery, representing distinct progress in treating patients with acute coronary syndrome.
An approach to fall prevention was conducted under the assumption that all inpatients are at risk for falls and that all employees within the hospital setting have a role in fall prevention. FALL PREVENTION PROGRAMS: Northwestern Memorial Hospital (Chicago), a 725-bed tertiary care academic medical center, recently updated a longstanding fall prevention program, "Take a Glance," to standardize and simplify its approach to fall prevention. In the "Take a Second Glance" program, all patients were screened for higher-than-standard fall risk on admission and at least every 24 hours. Standard interventions were recommended and integrated into practice for all patients. The training session for managers provided information, materials, and job aids for staff to facilitate implementation. A reduced number (36 to 13) of interventions were prescribed for fall prevention, and important safety measures were to be incorporated into the patient's plan of care.
The Chronic Care Model (CCM) is a widely used conceptual model for improving chronic illness care, but there is limited evidence to support the validity of this model. Seventeen clinics in a single medical group used the CCM in a diabetes improvement initiative, and the study tested which CCM components at the clinic level were associated with improved glycohemoglobin (A1C) and low-density (LDL) outcomes for patients with diabetes.
Because neuromodulation was not included in the national health insurance system, the Dutch Neuromodulation Group (DNG) developed national standards and a continuous quality improvement (CQI) system for consistency in application of neuromodulation techniques and in the quality of outcomes.
The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia), a university-affiliated academic health center, developed and pilot tested a method for analyzing staffing effectiveness. SCREENING INDICATORS: Human resource screening indicators chosen for analysis included direct caregiver indicators (based on nursing and allied health resource data), such as registered nurse (R.N.) turnover rate, and indirect caregiver indicators (based on overall health care organization resource data), such as overall hospital turnover rate. Clinical/service screening indicators consisted of five nursing-sensitive outcome variables.
Despite widespread recommendations, the pneumococcal vaccination rate of patients 65 years of age or older is below target goals. A reminder system was instituted at the time of the scheduled primary care visit as a pilot quality improvement project.
An independent health care evaluating organization reported on the Internet that the 1996-1998 mortality rate for simple pneumonia (one of the diagnoses in diagnosis-related group [DRG] 89) was 11.06% (expected rate, 7.69%)--a rate much higher than suggested by the medical center's prospective quality surveillance. Chart review was undertaken to explain this reported higher mortality rate.
Computer physician order entry (CPOE) may have significant benefit to reducing medical errors in the hospital setting. The belief in the promise of CPOE has led organizations such as the Leap Frog Group to advocate for the implementation of CPOE in hospitals to improve patient safety. Human factors, or ergonomics, is the study of the interaction between humans and the systems and tools they use. It is unclear whether human factors principles have been applied to commercially available CPOE systems.
Consumers care about the quality of medical care but do not pay attention to currently available quality information or use it to make more informed health care choices. According to the theory of constructed preferences, when people are in a situation that is both complex and unfamiliar, they likely do not have fixed ideas about what is important to them. This theory seems to describe the situation of consumers and comparative quality information. The alternative would be to help consumers understand the overall concept of quality and the different elements that make up quality of care. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) report Crossing the Quality Chasm provides a framework for understanding, measuring, and evaluating the quality of medical care.
Microalbuminuria is a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). It occurs most commonly in the settings of diabetes and hypertension. The mechanisms by which it increases CHD risk are uncertain.
It remains unknown whether the prevalence of silent lacunar infarcts increases as renal function declines or what factors known as atherosclerotic risk factors are related to the development of lacunar infarcts.
To clarify the mechanism of deposition of immunoglobulin G (IgG) subclasses in glomerulonephritis in children, we investigated IgG subclasses in glomerular deposits and T helper subtype 1 (T(H)1)/T(H)2 cytokine balance in pediatric patients with glomerulonephritis.
Focal segmental glomerular sclerosis (FSGS) has a high propensity for recurrence after renal transplantation, with a 50% risk for graft failure from recurrent disease.
The common treatment for antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated renal vasculitis is oral cyclophosphamide (CYC)-corticosteroid combination therapy. However, there are serious complications associated with long-term use of CYC. In this study, we investigate the efficacy of a purine synthesis inhibitor, mizoribine, for patients at high risk for relapse.
Mutations in the SLC4A1 gene have been found to cause either autosomal dominant (AD) or autosomal recessive (AR) distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA). The SLC4A1 mutations causing AD dRTA were reported in white patients, whereas those associated with AR dRTA were often found in Southeast Asia. Here, the authors report additional novel SLC4A1 mutations in 3 patients with AR dRTA from 2 unrelated Thai families.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects up to 19.2 million Americans, and untreated kidney disease can progress to kidney failure. Patient education is an important part of slowing disease progression, but the ability of health professionals to provide this education is limited by time constraints. To date, there have been no systematic evaluations of CKD eHealth Web sites.
Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) have a high incidence of cardiovascular disease and increased premature mortality. n-3 Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are known to decrease plasma triglyceride levels, reduce blood pressure (BP), and have a cardioprotective effect in subjects with normal renal function. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of n-3 PUFAs on plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels and 24-hour ambulatory BP in patients with CRF.
The Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula is recommended by European and American guidelines for estimating glomerular filtration rate (GFR). However, the accuracy of the formula has been questioned in several studies. Our objective is to evaluate the performance of the MDRD formula with special emphasis on the possibility that interlaboratory calibration differences for serum creatinine reduce the accuracy of the formula.
Anemia is common in hemodialysis (HD) patients.
Synthesis of nitric oxide by endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ENOS) plays a key role in the atherosclerotic process. Several polymorphisms of the gene encoding ENOS are now known and have been investigated with respect to their influence on cardiovascular disease risk in the general population. The authors prospectively investigated whether ENOS gene polymorphisms determined the risk of cardiovascular complications in a cohort of hemodialysis patients.
The prevalence rate of renal replacement therapy in the United Kingdom has increased significantly, particularly by long-term hemodialysis (HD) therapy in renal satellite units (RSUs). These are largely nurse-run units linked to main renal units (MRUs). We compared outcomes, processes of care, and costs in RSUs with those in MRUs.
Fluid and sodium removal rates may not be equivalent in patients undergoing automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). This may influence compared cardiovascular outcomes in both groups.
Aquaporin 1 (AQP-1) channels have been claimed to be responsible for osmotically driven free-water movement across the peritoneal membrane. Data about AQP-1 expression and its location in the human peritoneum related to clinical findings concerning ultrafiltration (UF) and free-water transport are still lacking.
We investigated the effect of prolonged oral arginine administration on tissue necrosis and perfusion in the rat skin flap.
Esophageal anastomotic leak is a potentially life threatening complication of esophagectomy and esophagogastrectomy. We reviewed our experience with this complication and tried to identify factors predictive of mortality after esophageal anastomotic leak.
Venous leg ulceration is a frequent and severe complication of lower limb venous insufficiency. Compression therapy is associated with a protracted course of healing and multiple recurrences. Minimally invasive surgery (subfascial endoscopic perforating surgery) is only possible in a subset of patients with leg ulcers. Low-cost and noninvasive therapeutic procedures are needed as alternative treatments.
There is currently no quantitative tool for evaluating vitiligo treatment response using parametric methods.
The standard treatment of Trichophyton rubrum nail bed onychomycosis (or distal subungual onychomycosis [DSO]) with daily terbinafine for 12 weeks involves treating for a fixed period shorter than the time required for complete replacement of the nail bed and overlying nail plate by normal growth. The same total amount of terbinafine pulse-dosed for approximately 12 months would treat the patient until normal replacement of the mycotic nail bed has occurred.
Lichen sclerosus is an inflammatory disease of unknown etiology affecting the anogenital skin and associated with the development of squamous cell carcinoma. It is not known whether long-term topical treatment with a potent steroid can cure this disease and thus prevent malignant evolution.
Topical tacrolimus has been reported to be an effective treatment for genital lichen planus in small case series. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 16 patients with symptomatic vulvar lichen planus who received treatment with tacrolimus ointment.
Evidence for the scientific basis of purported therapeutic effects and adverse effects of herbal supplements continues to grow. Many herbal supplements are touted for their immunostimulatory properties, and both in vitro and in vivo experiments have supported this claim. Although this explains their beneficial effects in preventing or curtailing disease, to our knowledge, no immunostimulatory herbal supplements have been reported to exacerbate disorders of immune system overactivity.
The classical extrapyramidal movement disorder following beta haemolytic streptococcus (BHS) infection is Sydenham's chorea (SC). Recently, other post-streptococcal movement disorders have been described, including motor tics and dystonia. Associated emotional and behavioural alteration is characteristic.
The spectrum of post-streptococcal brain disorders includes chorea, tics, and dystonia. The proposed mediators of disease are anti-basal ganglia (neuronal) antibodies (ABGA).
Previous studies have presented conflicting results regarding the predictive effect of various clinical symptoms, signs, and plain imaging for intracranial pathology in children with minor head injury.
An increased incidence of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) at weekends has been previously noted, although it has not been found in all studies. Where a weekend effect has been found it is most prominent on Sundays.
In prematurely born infants with chronic lung disease (CLD), RSV hospitalisation is associated with increased health service utilisation and costs in the first two years after birth.
The interrelations between early enteral feeding, necrotising enterocolitis (NEC), and nosocomial sepsis (NS) remain unclear.
Theophylline treatment causes side effects such as tachycardia, hyperglycaemia, abdominal distension, and vomiting. The latter two are probably the result of delayed gastric evacuation.
The incidence of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) has increased 10-fold over the last decade in Glasgow. In the Princess Royal Maternity Hospital, it now accounts for 17% of special care baby unit (SCBU) admissions.
Small for gestational age (SGA) extremely low birthweight (ELBW &lt; 1000 g) survivors often remain small and/or have subnormal school performance. Some are twins/triplets with larger appropriate size for gestational age (AGA) co-twins/triplets.
The incidence of preterm meconium staining of the amniotic fluid (MSAF) is uncertain. It may be an indicator of possible listeriosis. It is unclear how great this risk is or whether preterm MSAF is a risk factor for adverse neonatal outcome.
Calprotectin, a major component of soluble cytosolic proteins in human neutrophil granulocytes, is excreted in excess in stools during inflammatory bowel disease in adults and children. Faecal calprotectin concentrations are also higher during the first year of life than in adults.
Low blood glucose in newborns is difficult to detect clinically. Hence a reliable "point of care" device (glucometer) for early detection and treatment of low glucose is needed.
Autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia (ADHSP) is mainly caused by mutations in the SPG4 gene, which encodes a new member of the AAA (adenosine triphosphatases associated with diverse cellular activities) protein family (spastin). Accumulation of genotype-phenotype correlation is important for better understanding of SPG4-linked hereditary spastic paraplegia.
Embryonic nigral cell implants are a novel treatment for Parkinson disease (PD). Reaction time (RT) and movement time (MT) analysis, validated quantitative measures of premovement neural processing and motor execution, can be used as objective physiological markers of motor performance in PD.
An elevated plasma homocysteine (Hcy) level has been prospectively associated with an increased risk of vascular and degenerative dementias. An Hcy elevation is prevalent in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) in part because levodopa metabolism produces Hcy. The clinical relevance of an elevated Hcy level in patients with PD is unknown.
With the exception of Huntington disease, the psychological and psychosocial impact of DNA testing for neurogenetic disorders has not been well studied.
Although estrogen therapy has been associated with improved cognitive functioning, a reduced risk of dementia in women with Parkinson disease (PD), and a decreased risk of Alzheimer disease, estrogen therapy has not affected the risk of PD per se.
Statins (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) are widely used for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and coronary heart disease and for the prevention of stroke. There have been various adverse effects, most commonly affecting muscle and ranging from myalgia to rhabdomyolysis. These adverse effects may be due to a coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) deficiency because inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis also inhibits the synthesis of CoQ(10).
Myotonic dystrophy is caused by unstable (CTG)(n) repeat expansion. On normal chromosomes, this repeat is highly polymorphic, with a copy number ranging from 4 to 38. Myotonic dystrophy is considered more prevalent in Western European and Japanese populations but less prevalent, rare, or even absent in others. It has been proposed that the expanded (CTG)(n) alleles originated from the group of the large normal alleles.
Stiff-person syndrome (SPS) is an immune-mediated central nervous system disorder characterized by fluctuating muscle stiffness, disabling spasms, and heightened sensitivity to external stimuli. Up to 80% of patients with SPS have anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies in the serum or cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). Whether these antibodies are clinically relevant and correlate with disease severity is unknown.
Microbleeds on gradient-echo magnetic resonance (MR) imaging reflect bleeding-prone microangiopathy. The microbleeds are frequently detected in patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage (PICH). However, some patients do not have microbleeds.
The treatment of painful diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN) is often inadequate and frequently limited by the systemic adverse effects of medications, necessitating the evaluation of novel treatments.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a common form of late-life dementia that can be difficult to differentiate from other disorders, especially Alzheimer disease (AD), during life. At autopsy the striatal dopaminergic transporter is reduced.
Mutations in CACNA1A, encoding a neuronal calcium channel subunit, and ATP1A2, encoding a catalytic subunit of a sodium-potassium-ATPase, have been found in some families with dominantly inherited hemiplegic migraine.
Interferon beta and statins are known to exert immunomodulatory actions by inhibiting gene transcription and translation of various proinflammatory molecules. Although interferon beta represents a mainstay in therapy for multiple sclerosis (MS), statins are considered a potential new approach in treating MS.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6) is an autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia caused by CAG trinucleotide expansion. The characteristics of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in SCA6 patients have not been established, whereas it has been reported that decreased rCBF in the cerebrum seems to be a remote effect of cerebellar impairment in other cerebellar disorders.
Stiff-person syndrome is a rare autoimmune disorder associated with antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the key enzyme in gamma-aminobutyric acid synthesis. In most cases, a trigger cannot be identified.
Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), which leads to strokes and dementia, is caused by single missense mutations or, in a few cases, small deletions in the NOTCH3 gene. These mutations result in a gain or a loss of 1 (or, rarely, 3) cysteine residue in 1 of 34 epidermal growth factor-like repeats in the extracellular amino-terminal region of NOTCH3.
The pathophysiology of white matter involvement in dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is controversial. Moreover, the clinical repercussions and evolution of these lesions have not been well documented.
SCO2 is a cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly gene that encodes a mitochondrial inner membrane protein that probably functions as a copper transporter. Mutations in SCO2 have been associated with severe COX deficiency and early-onset fatal infantile hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, encephalopathy, and neurogenic muscle atrophy. Fetal wastage has not been described in association with mutations of SCO2.
Bilateral simultaneous infarction in the territories of the posterior inferior cerebellar arteries (PICAs) is rare but was recently reported with increasing frequency, probably because of the wider availability of magnetic resonance imaging. The cause of these infarcts is believed to be atherosclerotic or embolic occlusion of a dominant PICA, which perfused the territories of the medial branches of both PICAs.
Although the percentage of women in surgical subspecialties is increasing, little is known about the experiences of these women compared with their male counterparts.
The OM6 is a 6-item condition-specific handicap measure developed in the United States for children with recurrent acute otitis media and otitis media with effusion. Easy and quick to use, it has high test-retest repeatability and is sensitive to change after ventilation tube insertion.
Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma (JNA) is a rare, highly vascularized neoplasm of the nasopharynx that affects boys and young men. The underlying dysregulated molecular mechanisms remain unclear. The participation of angiogenic growth factors has been suggested, but few studies have been published.
Excess mucus production and hypersecretion characterize upper airway diseases. The primary mechanisms leading to mucus hypersecretion in chronic rhinosinus inflammation are not well understood. Mucus hypersecretion is commonly accompanied by goblet cell and submucosal gland cell hyperplasia. It is important to identify which mucin gene messenger RNAs (mRNAs) are expressed in the sinus mucosa.
Neonatal hemochromatosis (NH), a rare disorder seen in newborns, is defined as liver failure with extrahepatic iron deposition that spares the reticuloendothelial elements. This disorder is considered the pathologic end point of a variety of diseases that result in prenatal liver failure, and mortality without aggressive treatment is common. However, ready diagnosis remains a problem. A liver biopsy specimen showing siderosis is not specific for hemochromatosis and may be risky in patients with coagulopathy.
Patients with head and neck cancer often experience debilitating speech, eating, and respiratory problems as well as the psychological effects of loss of function and change in body image. These patients often become unemployed as a result of their disease process, which adds financial burden to their already stressful lives. Yet the specific factors associated with unemployment have not been systematically studied.
Ventricular assist devices are gaining ground in the therapeutic treatment of chronic heart failure. These devices are sometimes used as a bridge to recovery by unloading the left ventricle (LV) and restoring its function. It is therefore important to preserve the heart muscle and apply less invasive implantation methods.
The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists (RANZCP) is co-ordinating the development of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) in psychiatry, funded under the National Mental Health Strategy (Australia) and the New Zealand Ministry of Health.
Autoimmune diseases are a group of illnesses in which autoantibodies are produced against various organs, presenting with a variety of clinical symptoms. In this review, we discuss the different aspects of autoimmune diseases in pregnancy. We also describe experimental models that help to understand the etiology and pathogenesis of the effects of this maternal disease on the developing embryo, fetus and placenta.
Little is known about risks of most specific birth defects among infants born to U.S.-born and foreign-born Hispanic or African-American women.
Based on experimental evidence and clinical observations, hemifacial microsomia (HFM) is one of several structural anomalies that are postulated to result from vascular disruption. We collected data in a case-control study to identify whether vasoactive exposures or vascular events during early pregnancy affect the risk of HFM.
There is compelling evidence that the risk of spina bifida, a malformation of the caudal neural tube, is associated with maternal and/or embryonic disturbances in folate/homocysteine metabolism. Hence, functional variants of genes that influence folate/homocysteine metabolism constitute a biologically plausible group of candidate risk factors for spina bifida and other neural tube defects. One such candidate is ABCC2, the gene encoding ABCC2, (a.k.a. canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter [cMOAT], multidrug resistance related protein 2 [MRP2]), a member of the ABC transporter family that effluxes natural folates and anti-folate drugs such as methotrexate.
Oral consumption of synthetic folic acid can prevent neural tube defects (NTDs), which are some of the most severe congenital anomalies. The prevalence of NTDs in Ukraine and other countries of the former U.S.S.R. has not been well studied. We determined the prevalence of NTD-affected pregnancies in Northwestern Ukraine as background for policy decisions related to flour fortification in this country.
Adequate periconceptional folic acid consumption lowers the risk for neural tube defects. We report the results of an evaluation of a folic acid intervention in Georgia family planning clinics that provided free folic acid supplements or fortified breakfast cereal.
Fluorescent subtelomeric probes for the 41 different subtelomeric regions (the p arms of the acrocentric chromosomes were excluded) have been developed over the last 10 years. These probes can detect deletions, duplications, and translocations in the gene-rich subtelomeric regions of human chromosomes, regions where crossing over frequently occurs and where a high number of abnormalities have been found. Recently, commercially produced probes have become available, which has led to the detection of subtelomeric abnormalities in 7.4% of patients with moderate to severe mental retardation (Knight et al., 1999).
Physician decision-making and perceptions of patients are affected by a patient's socioeconomic status (SES). We sought to determine if the perceptions of first- and second-year medical students are similarly affected. We also wanted to determine whether a student's own SES affects his or her perceptions of patients from a low or high SES background.
Over the last 10 years the number of medical students choosing family medicine as a career has steadily declined. Studies have demonstrated that career preference at the time that students begin medical school may be significantly associated with their ultimate career choice. We sought to identify the career preferences students have at entry to medical school and the factors related to family medicine as a first-choice career option.
Author self-citation is the practice of citing one's previous publications in a new publication. Its extent is unknown. We studied author self-citation, choosing the major clinical field of diabetes mellitus to represent the general medical literature.
Blinded review has been endorsed by several cytology and pathology organizations as the most appropriate method for the review of cervicovaginal specimens in the context of litigation. Methods for determining the statistical validity of this method were evaluated.
Cell blocks can be prepared from residual thin-layer cervicovaginal (ThinPrep) material and can be used in immunohistochemical staining assays for p16INK4a and Ki-67, which are surrogate markers related to human papillomavirus infection and cell proliferation, respectively. The objectives of the current study were 1) to investigate the feasibility and the role of cell block preparations in identifying significant neoplastic and preneoplastic lesions of the uterine cervix and 2) to assess the feasibility of using p16INK4a and Ki-67 immunohistochemical staining patterns on cell blocks to identify significant preneoplastic cervical lesions.
Since its introduction more than 45 years ago, the pelvic wash has gained widespread acceptance and is used routinely use at most centers. However, widely varying figures have been reported regarding its sensitivity for peritoneal involvement in ovarian tumors. In the current study, the authors evaluated a consecutive group of pelvic (peritoneal or abdominopelvic) washings performed in the evaluation of adnexal masses to determine whether histologic subtype significantly affects the tumor detection rate using this procedure.
Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNA) allows detailed imaging of both intramural and extramural structures of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and also allows tissue samples to be obtained from masses and lesions in the GI tract. The objective of the current study was to determine the diagnostic utility of EUS-FNA in evaluating intramural and extramural GI tract lesions.
In 1996, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) recommended five categories for the diagnosis of breast aspiration cytology: benign, atypical, suspicious, malignant, and unsatisfactory. The authors evaluated the usefulness of separating inconclusive diagnoses into the aforementioned atypical and suspicious categories. The current study examined the correlation between cytologic and histologic findings made in breast aspiration cytology specimens that were categorized in accordance with these NCI guidelines.
CDX-2 gene is a transcription factor that is involved in the proliferation and differentiation of intestinal epithelial cells. Recent studies have shown that CDX-2 could be used as an immunohistochemical marker to differentiate metastatic gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma from other metastatic adenocarcinomas in surgical pathology. The objective of the current study was to investigate the diagnostic value of CDX-2 to separate metastatic gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma from other metastatic adenocarcinomas in fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC).
The genesis of lymphoid neoplasia is accompanied by alterations in cell proliferation control mechanisms. Thus, proliferative indices (PIs) provide valuable prognostic information in this setting. Nonetheless, one shortcoming of PI measurements is that they depend not only on the proliferative activity of the neoplastic cells in a given lesion, but also on the activity of any admixed reactive cells. The current report describes an approach to identifying neoplastic and reactive subpopulations in cytologic preparations and to comparatively characterizing the morphologic features of neoplastic cells and assessing their proliferative activity.
Although cytologic evaluation of urine specimens is a standard procedure in the diagnosis and follow-up of bladder carcinoma, its sensitivity and specificity are low. Cytopathologic diagnoses are driven primarily by spatial relations or morphology. Although color enhances the pathologist's perception of the specimen, spectral information plays a minimal role in diagnostic processes. Recently, methods have been developed to capture and analyze spectral information from clinical specimens. In the current study, the authors determined the classification value of spectral information by testing its ability to discriminate between malignant and benign urothelial cells in cytology specimens.
Recommendations for the proper treatment of women diagnosed with an equivocal atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) Papanicolaou (Pap) smear are controversial. To the authors' knowledge, there currently are no methods available that can identify accurately ASCUS/human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive women who have an increased risk of developing progressive cervical lesions without the use of invasive procedures. An additional diagnostic tool is needed to triage women properly who are diagnosed with ASCUS. Numerical chromosomal abnormalities, such as tetraploidy and aneuploidy, frequently accompany cervical carcinoma development and are believed to represent early and important genetic alterations during cervical carcinogenesis. The identification of elevated levels of numerical chromosomal aberrations in women diagnosed with ASCUS Pap smears, therefore, may be of prognostic value.
Recent data indicate that matrix proteins such as matrix Gla protein (MGP) and osteonectin (ON) influence not only mineralization of vasculature but smooth muscle cell (SMC) differentiation.
MRL is a strain of mice with the unusual ability to recover from injuries without forming scar tissue. It was recently reported that the MRL mice can recover with little or no scar formation following a cryogenically induced myocardial infarction of the right ventricle. These findings suggest that scarless recovery from myocardial injury is possible in mammalian ventricles. If applicable to humans, these results could have significant clinical implications in the management of patients with myocardial infarction. However, myocardial infarction in human patients usually results from ischemic injury instead of cryoinjury. Myocardial infarction usually occurs in the left ventricle.
BIOSA is a single sheet, two-cuspal-shaped ("bileaflet") glutaraldehyde fixed bovine pericardial valve prosthesis (BP), designed to minimize stress and prevent mechanical failure. We tested this device in the adult sheep model.
Silver stain of reticular fibres demonstrates the fine structure of the cardiac collagen network. However, nuclei are also stained with current techniques, a drawback that makes computer image analysis difficult. To solve this problem our study was designed to modify Gomori's method. Reactive concentrations and action times represent the core of that modification. Only stromal tissue is stained. The technique was tested for repeatability and reproducibility to assess the precision of the measurement procedure in the assessment of myocardial collagen in a consecutive series of myocardial samples from patients with and without heart muscle disease. In addition, we checked the reliability of the method by comparing our results with the point-counting method (PCM).
We evaluated the effect of pretreatment with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) on experimentally induced myocarditis concomitant with the assessment of antigen-specific properties of disease-triggering lymphocytes.
Intermittent brief "preconditioning" (PC) ischemia has been shown to render the heart resistant to a subsequent sustained ischemic insult, in part through an opioid-dependent mechanism. Using the rabbit model, we tested the hypothesis that intermittent in vivo apnea elicits a cardioprotective response similar to that achieved with conventional PC ischemia. In addition, we sought to determine if infarct size reduction seen in this model was stimulated via opioid receptor activation.
Mitochondria are key regulators in apoptosis. This suggests that a mitochondrion can be a target for cancer treatment. To examine the feasibility of this approach, we investigated the effect of oligomycin on the induction of apoptosis in drug-resistant cells. As a mitochondrion-targeting agent, oligomycin inhibits mitochondrial F0F1-ATPase. Of 37,000 molecules tested against the 60 human cancer cell lines of the National Cancer Institute, oligomycin is among the top 0.1% most cell line selective agents.
Differences in clarithromycin disposition and the resulting changes in bacterial density were studied using mouse lung and thigh infection models.
The application of liposome-encapsulated cytostatics results in higher concentrations in tumor tissue. This effect can be further increased by blood flow retardation with longer retention time in the tumor and by arterial administration realized in abdominal stop-flow therapy, a separate partial circulation with a defined flow under hypoxic conditions. The pH changes under stop-flow therapy may affect the further metabolism of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), used here.
A trend towards a decrease in gonorrhea in Japan was observed until the mid-1990s, but soon after that period, an increased incidence of gonorrhea was reported.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading pathogen causing pneumonia, meningitis, otitis media, bacteremia and sinusitis resulting in significant morbidity and mortality. We examined in vitro activities of five quinolones in comparison with other antibiotics against 85 invasive pneumococcal isolates.
A transcription factor, ets-1, regulates the transcription of metalloproteinase genes, the activity of which is necessary for matrix degradation and the migration of endothelial cells. However, no study has demonstrated that ets-1 itself has an angiogenic action in vivo. Thus, we examined (1) the effects of overexpression of the ets-1 gene on angiogenesis in a rat hindlimb ischemia model, and (2) how ets-1 induced angiogenesis.
Synchrotron radiation has been used to analyze crossbridge dynamics in isolated papillary muscle and excised perfused hearts with the use of x-ray diffraction techniques. We showed that these techniques can detect regional changes in rat left ventricle contractility and myosin lattice spacing in in situ ejecting hearts in real time. Furthermore, we examined the sensitivity of these indexes to regional ischemia.
Increasing evidence points to a role for circulating endothelial progenitor cells, including populations of CD34- and CD133-positive cells present in peripheral blood, in maintenance of the vasculature and neovascularization. Immature populations, including CD34-positive cells, have been shown to contribute to vascular homeostasis, not only as a pool of endothelial progenitor cells but also as a source of growth/angiogenesis factors at ischemic loci. We hypothesized that diminished numbers of circulating immature cells might impair such physiological and reparative processes, potentially contributing to cerebrovascular dysfunction.
The importance of germ-line mosaicism in genetic disease is probably underestimated, even though recent studies indicate that it may be involved in 10% to 20% of apparently de novo cases of several dominantly inherited genetic diseases.
The signaling pathways that control ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis in heart have not been fully defined. In this study, we investigated whether Akt signaling has a role in the antiapoptotic pathways of preconditioning against hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R).
Familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCH) is traditionally diagnosed by total plasma cholesterol and/or triglyceride levels above the 90th percentile adjusted for age and gender. In a recent study, we showed that the diagnosis of FCH on the basis of these diagnostic criteria was inconsistent in 26% of the subjects over a 5-year period. This result emphasizes the need for reevaluation of the diagnostic criteria for FCH.
The modification of atrial fibrillation cycle length (AFCL) during catheter ablation in humans has not been evaluated.
Rapamycin is a specific inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). We recently reported that administration of rapamycin before exposure to ascending aortic constriction significantly attenuated the load-induced increase in heart weight by approximately 70%.
C-reactive protein (CRP) values predict atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Associations between CRP and obesity, predominantly assessed anthropometrically, may partly explain these observations. Previous studies have been unable to control for genetic influences on CRP and obesity. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between CRP and accurately measured body fat, lipids, apolipoproteins, blood pressure, and environmental and behavioral factors, independent of genetic influences.
The mechanisms underlying the variation in collateral formation between patients, even with similar patterns of coronary artery disease, remain unclear. This study investigates whether circulating humoral or cellular factors can provide an insight into this variation.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are reversible inhibitors of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2. Whether transient and incomplete COX-1 inhibition with NSAIDs other than aspirin will translate into clinical cardioprotection is unclear. Some reports suggest that concurrent aspirin and ibuprofen might be associated with lower cardioprotection than aspirin alone because of a pharmacodynamic interaction.
Few data exist on gender-related differences in clinical presentation, diagnostic findings, management, and outcomes in acute aortic dissection (AAD).
We previously reported that 20% of women with chest pain but without obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) had stress-induced reduction in myocardial phosphocreatine-adenosine triphosphate ratio by phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (abnormal MRS), consistent with myocardial ischemia. The prognostic implications of these findings are unknown.
This study was created by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care Institute for Quality Improvement to measure clinical performance and improvement opportunities for physicians and ambulatory health-care organizations. Data were collected prospectively between February 2001 and August 2002. Thirty-nine study centers participated, and 688 patients who had tumescent liposuction were surveyed and followed for 6 months.
The flashlamp-pulsed dye laser has been used for nonablative dermal remodeling.
Recent reports show that 308-nm excimer laser may be an effective and safe method for the treatment of vitiligo, which is usually resistant to other available treatment methods.
Pulse dye laser has been used with variable degrees of success in the treatment of hypertrophic scars, and although earlier reports suggested a significant degree of improvement, more recent studies have raised concern about its effectiveness. Furthermore, most previous studies examined its use in patients with light skin types, and the use of pulse dye laser in dark-skinned patients for the treatment of hypertrophic scars is not well established.
Multiple treatment modalities have been used for the revision of acne scarring with varying degrees of success. Nonablative laser resurfacing has recently been shown to improve the appearance of atrophic acne scars.
Phosphatidylcholine injections are becoming an increasingly popular technique to treat localized fat accumulation. This formula is composed primarily of phosphatidylcholine and sodium deoxycholate, a bile salt used to solubilize the natural phospholipid in water. The mechanism through which this injectable phosphatidylcholine formulation causes localized fat reduction is unknown.
Neural cell adhesion molecule; nerve growth factor; and its receptors TrkA, TrkB, TrkC, and p75(NGFR) regulate unique survival pathways in the cells of different noncutaneous malignancies exhibiting a perineural invasive phenotype. Their expression is currently unknown in basal cell carcinoma and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma exhibiting perineural invasion.
The aging of the population in the developed world is an accepted fact. Consequently, the number of patients aged 90 years or over with cutaneous cancer will increase in coming years.
Implantable electrical devices are becoming increasingly common in the patient population presenting for Mohs micrographic surgery. In addition to understanding the potential intraoperative complications with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and pacemakers, the Mohs surgeon needs to be aware of the relatively new treatment of movement disorders using implanted deep brain stimulators.
Subungual osteochondromas are relatively rare.
Temporal hair loss has been reported to occur in up to 8.4% of patients after rhytidectomy. To date, no one has described the associated histopathologic findings.
In patients with extensive vitiligo, depigmentation therapy is often preferred over attempts to restore skin color. Bleaching creams sometimes fail to permanently depigment the skin, leaving disfiguring pigmented patches. This recalcitrant pigmentation may be treated with Q-switched laser technology.
Granular cell tumors, also known as granular cell myoblastomas, are uncommon neoplasms of unknown etiology. Most granular cell tumors are benign and present as solitary, painless dermal nodules of the head and neck. Few of these tumors are reported on the lower extremities and only eight cases of granular cell tumor of the foot have been reported. Of these eight, only two clinically benign granular cell tumors occurred on the heel.
Pyogenic granuloma, also known as lobular capillary hemangioma, is a benign vascular skin tumor. Intravascular variant of this vascular tumor is rare and such a variant arising in another hemangioma is extremely unusual.
Patients with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome suffer from multiple basal cell carcinomas, requiring numerous surgical procedures that over time leave them with multiple disfiguring scars. Photodynamic therapy with delta-aminolevulinic acid using red light (approximately 630 nm) sources has been reported as effective in treatment of superficial and small nodular basal cell carcinomas. To our knowledge, the blue light source (417 nm peak irradiance) approved by the FDA for treatment of actinic keratoses has not been used for photodynamic therapy with delta-aminolevulinic acid of basal cell carcinoma.
Desmoplastic trichilemmoma is a rare pseudomalignant variant of trichilemmoma. It generally presents as a small papule on the face and is often clinically misdiagnosed as a basal cell carcinoma or verruca vulgaris. It is histologically similar to a trichilemmoma, but has a central area of desmoplasia that can mimic an invasive carcinoma.
Surgery of the digit is facilitated with adequate hemostasis for visualization of the operative field. Several types of tourniquets have been used for this purpose, including glove fingers, Penrose drains, Marmed digital tourniquets, and standard pneumatic tourniquets.
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is associated with an increased cardiovascular disease risk. Less is known about cardiovascular disease risk among subjects with impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or with combined IFG and IGT.
The ACRP30/adiponectin gene on chromosome 3q27, a region linked to the metabolic syndrome, encodes for the abundant adipocyte-specific secreted protein. Consistent rodent and human studies suggested that this adipokine may be a molecular link between metabolic and cardiovascular diseases.
Acupuncture has traditionally been used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in China and is increasingly being applied in Western countries. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of acupuncture in the treatment of active Crohn's disease (CD).
Gastroduodenal motorfunction, gallbladder motility, and pancreatic secretion are closely related during the interdigestive state. The extent to which application of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDC) influences this process is only partly understood.
Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is an autosomal dominant disorder predisposing to predominantly colorectal cancer (CRC) and endometrial cancer frequently due to germline mutations in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes, mainly MLH1, MSH2 and also MSH6 in families seen to demonstrate an excess of endometrial cancer. As a consequence, tumors in HNPCC reveal alterations in the length of simple repetitive genomic sequences like poly-A, poly-T, CA or GT repeats (microsatellites) in at least 90% of the cases.
It has been speculated that the use of triptans or ergot alkaloid drugs might increase risk of ischemic events through vasoconstriction.
Migraines affect 10% of the U.S. population and the episodes are frequently associated with significant disability. Triptans, 5HT1 receptor agonists, can be highly effective in treating pain and reducing disability. However, reports of cardiac events associated with triptan ingestion have led to concerns about its use in the face of possible cardiac disease.
Several studies indicate that triptans are more efficacious when administered early during a migraine attack, when the pain is still mild.
Patients with chronic migraine and medication overuse are particularly difficult to treat (prophylactic medications that otherwise are effective become ineffective; discontinuation of the offending medication can lead to withdrawal headache; physical and emotional dependence can be present, as well as increased psychological involvement; initial treatment gains can be difficult to maintain).
In a previous study, we compared the 1988 International Headache Society (IHS) criteria and the Silberstein-Lipton criteria (S-L) in a subspeciality clinic sample of 638 patients with chronic daily headache (CDH) assessed both clinically and with headache diaries. Both systems allowed for the classification of most patients with CDH. The 1988 IHS classification required multiple diagnoses and was more complex to apply.
Treatment with SQ sum may cause an increase in attack frequency of CH but data from literature are scant and controversial.
It has been reported that the number of mast cells was significantly greater in malignant breast carcinomas than in benign breast lesions. This was due to tryptase-containing mast cells while tryptase, chymase-containing mast cells had no effect. However, analysis of mast cells in breast carcinomas and benign breast lesions based on their histological findings remains to be elucidated.
Asthma is a complex airway disorder, and a number of genetic loci have been found to be associated with asthma. The 5q31-33 region is one of the most important loci linked to asthma and atopic disorders. However, association studies with candidate genes in this region, such as IL4, were inconclusive, as both positive and negative results were obtained in several populations studied. The aim of our case-control study was to determine the association between IL4 and asthma in North Indians.
Diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) and diisononyl phthalate (DINP), two commonly used plasticizers in flexible polyvinylchloride formulations, have potentially adverse effects on human health. However, the influence of these diphthalates on allergic responses remains unclear. In this study we examined the effects of DEHP and DINP on IL-4 production in CD4+ T cells and the level of IgE in sera, critical hallmarks associated with allergic diseases.
Respiratory viruses are the most frequent triggers of acute asthma exacerbations. Herein we investigate costimulatory molecule expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) during such exacerbations.
The effects of cytokines are modulated by soluble cytokine receptors (SCR) and receptor antagonists. Therefore, allergic disease may depend on altered proportions between cytokines, their SCR and receptor antagonists, rather than absolute changes in cytokine levels. Little is known about SCR in intermittent allergic rhinitis (IAR).
Approximately half of the Japanese asthmatics experience exacerbation of asthma after alcohol consumption. We previously reported that this phenomenon is probably caused by histamine release from mast cells by acetaldehyde stimulation. However, no reports have described the effects of acetaldehyde on human airway mast cells. The purpose of the present study was to demonstrate acetaldehyde-induced histamine release from human airway mast cells with subsequent airway smooth muscle contraction and to investigate the ensuing mechanisms.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by pruritic chronic eczema. The immunopathogenesis of this condition is still not well understood. We assessed the transcription and production of IFN-gamma, the Th1 cytokine, and the Th2 cytokine IL-5 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with severe AD.
Paragonimiasis westermani (Pw), a common parasitic zoonosis in Asia, is typically associated with eosinophilia. Th2 cytokines seem to have an important role in the clinical manifestations of this disease. Thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) is a potential key regulator of Th2-mediated inflammation. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the antigen-specific Th2-dominant responses in patients with Pw.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) represents a group of inherited disorders of the phagocytic system, involving recurrent infections at different sites, especially the respiratory system. The present study was accomplished in order to determine the clinical spectrum of Iranian patients with CGD.
Few rigorous evaluations have been conducted of locally designed, culturally consistent adolescent reproductive health programs.
By 1979, China had begun implementing the so-called one-child policy, which severely restricts couples' childbearing. It is important to understand Chinese women's perceptions of how their lives have been affected by this policy and by the use of family planning.
One of Lesotho's population goals is to achieve replacement-level fertility by 2011, but the contraceptive prevalence rate of 41% is considerably below the target of 70-75%.
Results from an analysis of 1998 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) data from Kenya, where the approval rate of family planning is 90%, have cast doubt on the assumption that spousal discussion improves knowledge of partner's attitude toward family planning. However, it is not known whether this finding also applies to contexts more typical of Sub-Saharan Africa, where approval is not as high.
Tuberculosis (TB) notification rates among First Nations people in British Columbia, Canada, are higher than those among non-First Nations people, although rates are declining more rapidly in the First Nations population. The epidemiology of tuberculous infection and disease during the period 1926-2000 in this population was investigated.
It has been hypothesized that antibiotic use early in life may increase the subsequent risk of asthma. We have conducted an ecologic analysis of the relationship between antibiotics sales and the prevalence of symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, and atopic eczema in 99 centres from 28 countries.
Little is known about the degree to which behavioural, biological, and genetic traits contribute to within-person variation in serum cholesterol. Materials and Methods The authors studied within-person variation in serum total and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol in 458 participants of 27 dietary intervention studies in Wageningen, The Netherlands, from 1976 to 1995.
The Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI) random walk method has been widely used by the World Health Organization and others for rapid cluster sample surveys where an up-to-date household sampling frame is not available. However, it is not a probability sample, does not allow for population movement since the last census, and does not ensure objectivity in household selection or permit call-backs for non-response. Compact segment sampling avoids these problems and has been proposed as a slower but cleaner alternative.
In Brazil cancer incidence rates have to be estimated from occasional surveys, due to lack of continuous cancer registries. Many estimated rates have very large variances, because only few years of data were collected. When dealing with a single cancer site, it is possible to adopt a Bayesian method which borrows information about the cancer rates from other geographical areas to estimate the cancer rate in a given area. We suggest an additional improvement to this method which explores the correlation between multiple cancer sites rates in a same area and in different areas.
Although social inequality in health has been an argument for community-based injury prevention programmes, intervention outcomes with regard to differences in social standing have not been analysed. The objective of this study was to investigate rates of injuries treated in health-care among members of households at different levels of labour market integration before and after the implementation of a WHO Safe Community programme.
Population decline, arising from below replacement fertility and possibly giving rise to substantial changes in age distribution, is a feature of many industrialized developed countries; Italy is one of the most notable European examples. The potential influence of this phenomenon on prevalence of chronic non-infectious disease is well known, but little attention to date has been paid to the impact on severe disease due to childhood infections in those cases where control is insufficient to achieve elimination.
Biochemical measurement of fat-soluble vitamins would allow direct assessment in epidemiological studies of their association with disease. However, the perceived instability of these compounds and typically high cost of collection and analysis may make their measurement impractical, particularly in large-scale studies. Using a high performance liquid chromatography assay developed in-house, we have investigated the separate effects of temperature and light on the stability of vitamins in whole blood over several days.
This study examined the association of otitis media in children &lt;6 years old and the exposure to wood and charcoal smoke, as well as to other risk factors, in Maputo.
Studies of the effect of exposure to a risk factor measured in an entire cohort may be augmented by nested case-control subsets to investigate confounding or effect modification by additional factors not practically assessed on all cohort members. We compared three control-selection strategies-matching on exposure, counter matching on exposure, and random sampling-to determine which was most efficient in a situation where exposure is a known, continuous variable and high doses are rare.
Panel studies offer repeated observations of individuals over time, but the mobility of populations in the developing world often causes attrition in panel studies. Such attrition can cause bias if it is selective but can be reduced by tracking respondents. Tracking in developing countries can be costly and difficult as populations are often highly mobile, infrastructure is poor, structures frequently change, and formal address systems or population records rarely exist. Method In this paper, the attrition and tracking experiences of panel studies in developing countries are reviewed and recommendations made for ensuring effective tracking. Comments Tracking can reduce attrition by up to 45% and is feasible if procedures are locally appropriate, well planned, involve the community, collect as much locating data as possible, and have explicit criteria, and if tracking is done at regular intervals, and interviewers are well trained, supervised, and motivated.
This article measures changes over time in Indonesia in the prevalence of moderate and severe child malnutrition, and examines the factors associated with these changes. A child with a weight-for-age Z-score below -2.0 is classified as underweight and either moderately or severely malnourished.
In China during 1995-1996 widespread tetanus toxoid (TT) mass vaccination of women of childbearing age in high-risk areas was conducted and neonatal tetanus (NT) surveillance was initiated as part of NT elimination efforts. Despite a subsequent decrease in the estimated rate of NT, the NT disease burden remains high in poorer areas of China.
This paper compares husband and wife reports of wife beating using household survey data collected from poor Palestinian refugee communities in Lebanon.
On the basis of a population-based cohort, we assessed the cancer risk, focusing on gynaecological cancers and pre-malignant lesions, among women with a previous tubal sterilization.
Sulphur mustard (mustard gas), the most widely used chemical agent in the Iran-Iraq war, affects many organs including the skin, the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts, and the central nervous system. The aim of this study was to assess the cumulative incidence rate and annual incidence rate of pulmonary complications, and the rate ratio of related factors.
We explored methods to develop uncorrelated variables for epidemiological analysis models. They were used to examine associations between respiratory health outcomes and multiple household risk factors.
Caregiver burden has been extensively studied in the dementia population. The marital relationship has been suggested as a mediational model through which variables influence the caregiver and contribute to the experience of burden or reward.
Elderly depression has gradually become a severe issue in the health care system. No studies have focused on evaluating the effects of light therapy on the elderly with depression in a subtropical climate area.
No previous attempt has been made to synthesise information on mortality and neurosis in older people. Our objective was to estimate the influence on mortality of various types of neurosis in the older population.
The criterion validity of the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression scale (CES-D) was assessed in a group of elderly Dutch community-residents who were self-referred to a prevention program for depression.
Medial temporal lobe atrophy is one of the most accurate markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Given the wide availability of the CT in the routine diagnostic assessment of patients with cognitive disturbances, a CT-based marker of AD might be clinically useful.
Critical Flicker Fusion Threshold (CFFT) is a psychophysical threshold and in psychological terms is regarded as a measure of information processing capacity. The test has previously been shown to be a valid and reliable measure of CNS functioning in patients with Alzheimer's disease and may be a useful as a screening measure for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Research has highlighted the influence of psychosocial factors on the wellbeing of carers of people with dementia. This study aimed to investigate the interrelationships between life events, depression and social support in carers of people with dementia.
Patients with basal ganglia abnormalities misclassify facial expressions of disgust as expressions of anger when asked to identify the emotion depicted in photographs of individuals displaying different emotions. Sprengelmeyer, Young, Pundt et al. (1997) reported a similar disgust recognition deficit in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)--an anxiety disorder associated with basal ganglia abnormality.
Depth of invasion beyond the muscularis propria (MP) by T3 rectal cancer can vary. The purpose of the present paper was to determine if depth of invasion beyond MP, as assessed by preoperative endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), can predict tumor recurrence in patients with T3 rectal tumors.
Gastric cancer can progress through two pathways of genomic instability: chromosomal (CIN) and microsatellite instability (MSI). It is hypothesized that these two pathways are not always independent and that some tumors show overlap between these two mechanisms.
Helicobacter pylori infection and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are two major causes of gastric injury but the effect of H. pylori eradication on the development of aspirin-induced gastric mucosal injury is unclear. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication on gastroduodenal mucosal injury induced by antithrombotic doses of aspirin.
Although interferon (IFN) has been approved in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in children, it is effective only in 30-40% of patients. In some studies it has been suggested that therapeutic use of anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccine may be beneficial in patients with chronic hepatitis B. The aim of the present study was to compare the efficacy of hepatitis B vaccination and IFN-alpha-2b in combination and IFN-alpha-2b monotherapy in children with chronic hepatitis B.
Although the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains poorly understood, metabolic syndrome associated with insulin resistance is the most reproducible factor in the development of NAFLD. Fat accumulation in hepatocytes results from an imbalance in the input, output and oxidation of fatty acid. Peroxisomes contain a battery of fatty acid oxidizing enzymes, the first of which, acyl-CoA oxidase (AOX), initiates the beta-oxidation spiral. One of the mammalian peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR), PPAR-alpha, regulates the transcriptional expression of the enzymes involved in fatty acid beta-oxidation. The aim of the present study was to define the role of PPAR-alpha and AOX in the development of NAFLD using the Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rat model.
The long-term prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poor and the prediction of survival is often difficult because of the limited liver function and frequent recurrence of HCC in most patients. Therefore, a prognostic classification of HCC should account for both tumor-related variables and liver function.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate microvessel density (MVD), and the expression of CD44 adhesion molecule, p53 protein and c-erbB2 in gallbladder carcinoma, and their relation to histological grade and tumor invasiveness.
Mutations in the human familial intrahepatic cholestasis gene, FIC1, result in progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 in children and benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis. The present study was performed to determine whether FIC1 transports bile acids and/or influences the activity of apical bile acid transporters.
Patients are often treated in hospital by physicians other than their regular community doctor. After they are discharged, their care is often returned to their regular community doctor and patients may not see the hospital physician. Transfer of information between physicians can be poor. We determined whether early postdischarge outcomes changed when patients were seen after discharge by physicians who treated them in the hospital.
Recent evidence suggests that patients are receiving only 50% of recommended processes of care. It is important to understand physician priorities among recommended interventions and how these priorities are influenced both intentionally as well as unintentionally.
Diabetes causes 45% of incident end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Risk of progression is higher in those with clinical risk factors (albuminuria and hypertension), and in ethnic minorities (including blacks, Asians, and Latinos). Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) slow the progression of diabetic nephropathy, yet little is known about their use among patients at high risk for progression to ESRD.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are effective for many cardiovascular diseases and are widely prescribed, but cough sometimes necessitates their withdrawal.
Voluntary reporting of near misses/adverse events is an important but underutilized source of information on errors in medicine. To date, there is very little information on errors in the ambulatory setting and physicians have not traditionally participated actively in their reporting or analysis.
Mind-body practices such as yoga are widely popular, but little is known about how such exercises impact health-related quality of life.
Health care providers are increasingly relying on collection agencies to recoup charges associated with medical care. Little is known about the prevalence of this practice in low-income communities and what effect it has on health-seeking behavior.
It is not well established to what degree advances have been adopted into contemporary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) practice in the community and what effect they have on the short-term outcomes of in-hospital mortality and length of stay.
Irrigated tip radiofrequency ablation of cardiac arrhythmias was developed to increase the size of the radiofrequency-induced lesion, since cooling of the electrode tip allows use of higher power settings. The purpose of this study was to determine if the increased lesion size during irrigated tip ablation is caused by the cooling effect solely or if increased electrical conductivity around the tip also contributes by increasing the "current-delivering size" of the tip: the so-called "virtual electrode effect."
Mild induced hypothermia holds promise as an effective neuroprotective strategy following acute stroke and cardiac arrest. Dependable noninvasive measurements of brain temperature are imperative for the investigation and clinical application of therapeutic hypothermia. Although the tympanic membrane temperature correlates best with brain temperature, it is a cumbersome location to record from continuously in the clinical setting. Data are lacking regarding the relationship between rectal and tympanic temperatures in nonintubated humans undergoing induced hypothermia via surface cooling.
Changes in the UK research policy have shown how the profession can successfully influence a government agenda.
The accession of 12 countries to the European Union necessitated mechanisms to be put in place to offer support to the professions to comply with Directives applying to their training. The author led missions to these countries on behalf of the European Union Commission. This paper reports on the issues arising from the accession process in terms of the political leadership of nursing in Central Europe. It places the current developments in historic and geo-political contexts.
In 1972, Manseau et al. and Kubli et al. described an undulating wave form alternating with a flat or smooth baseline fetal heart rate (FHR) in severely affected, Rh-sensitized and dying fetuses. This FHR pattern was called 'sinusoidal' because of its sine waveform. Subsequently, Modanlou et al. described SHR pattern associated with fetal to maternal hemorrhage causing severe fetal anemia and hydrops fetalis. Both Manseau et al. and Kubli et al. stated that this particular FHR pattern, whatever its pathogenesis, was an extremely significant finding that implied severe fetal jeopardy and impending fetal death. UNDULATING FHR PATTERN: Undulating FHR pattern may be due to the following: (1) true SHR pattern; (2) drugs; (3) pre-mortem FHR pattern; (4) pseudo-SHR pattern; and (5) equivocal FHR patterns. FETAL CONDITIONS ASSOCIATED WITH SHR PATTERN: SHR pattern has been reported with the following fetal conditions: (1) severe fetal anemia of several etiologies; (2) effects of drugs, particularly narcotics; (3) fetal asphyxia/hypoxia; (4) fetal infection; (5) fetal cardiac anomalies; (6) fetal sleep cycles; and (7) sucking and rhythmic movements of fetal mouth. DEFINITION OF TRUE SHR PATTERN: Modanlou and Freeman proposed the following definition for the interpretation of true SHR pattern: (a) stable baseline FHR of 120-160 bpm; (b) amplitude of 5-15 bpm, rarely greater; (c) frequency of 2-5 cycles per minute; (d) fixed or flat short-term variability; (e) oscillation of the sinusoidal wave from above and below a baseline; and (f) no areas of normal FHR variability or reactivity.
To study autoantibody titres against oxidized low density lipoprotein in preeclamsia.
Thermal balloon endometrial ablation (TBEA) is a non-hysteroscopic technique, which relies on a combination of heat and pressure within the uterine cavity to destroy endometrium and superficial myometrium. It is a simple, easy and minimally invasive procedure with an equivalent effectiveness to hysteroscopic endometrial ablation.
The presence of a screw opening on the occlusal surface of implant-supported metal-ceramic crowns may decrease the porcelain fracture resistance and shorten the longevity of the crown.
There are insufficient data on the accuracy of resin indexing materials for the assembly of implant prostheses in vivo.
Titanium has physical and mechanical properties, which have led to its increased use in dental prostheses despite casting difficulties due to high melting point and formation of oxide layers which affect the metal-ceramic bond strength.
All-ceramic molar onlays continue to have higher failures from bulk fracture than similar cast metal onlays.
Ceramic optimized polymer (Ceromer)/fiber-reinforced composite (FRC) crowns have been promoted as alternatives to conventional crowns. However, little is known regarding the ideal tooth preparation for this type of crown.
The failure loads of all-ceramic crowns are influenced not only by the fracture resistance of the component materials but also by prosthesis geometry and size and location of flaws, thus there is a need for a study that compares the fracture resistance of all-ceramic systems using a simple and reproducible specimen geometry that includes flaws occurring at material interfaces.
The selective pressure technique has been recommended for making impressions of maxillary edentulous residual ridges. Although various methods for making impressions have been reported, a definitive procedure has not been clearly elucidated.
The palate and upper lip are the regions of oral mucosa covered with the least amount of saliva. These areas are important for maxillary denture retention and stability. Thus, patients with xerostomia or hyposalivation may have problems with the stability of maxillary complete dentures.
The use of polyurethane liners beneath silicone facial prostheses is recommended to improve the effectiveness of water-based adhesives, reduce bacterial colonization, and allow very thin margins. Patients using silicone prostheses with a polyurethane lining often observe different degrees of debonding which may lead to failure of the prosthesis. Aggressive cleaning may be associated with debonding of the silicone to polyurethane.
Endovascular stent grafting (EVSG) has emerged as a new treatment for aortic disease and has recently been applied to the treatment of acute blunt aortic injury (BAI). The purpose of this study was to determine the outcome of EVSG for patients with BAI at two tertiary (Level I) trauma centers.
Screening methods for detecting cervical spine injury in obtunded ventilated patients continue to evolve. This study compared the use of plain radiography to computed tomographic (CT) scanning of cervical spines in the obtunded blunt trauma patient. The accuracy of plain radiography and CT scanning in detecting clinically significant cervical spine injury in the obtunded blunt trauma patient was evaluated.
Use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) has become a popular recreational activity for all ages, yet children suffer a markedly higher proportion of ATV-related injuries and deaths compared with the adult population. Evidence needs to be developed to direct policy to eliminate unnecessary injuries in this population.
The combination of bicarbonate and mannitol (BIC/MAN) is commonly used to prevent renal failure (RF) in patients with rhabdomyolysis despite the absence of sufficient evidence validating its use. The purpose of this study was to determine whether BIC/ MAN is effective in preventing RF in patients with rhabdomyolysis caused by trauma.
Firearm violence is the second leading cause of injury-related death. This study examined the use of local trauma centers as lead organizations in their communities to address firearm injury.
This study aimed to assess the effects of local and state anti-crime initiatives on the number of gunshot wound admissions to a level 1 trauma center.
This study was designed to compare ultrasonography, clinical findings, and radiography in the detection of rib and sternal fractures.
This study investigated the causes of recurrent traumatic carotid-cavernous fistulas (RTCCFs) after detachable balloon embolization and evaluated the selection of embolic materials for endovascular treatment of the RTCCFs.
Hypothermia is associated with an increased risk of bleeding and is a significant contributing factor to the morbidity and mortality of trauma and complicated surgical procedures. A core temperature of 33 degrees C is associated with a significantly increased risk of death after trauma compared with 37 degrees C. Hypothermia-associated bleeding has been hypothesized to result from dysregulation of enzymatic function, reduced platelet activity, and/or altered fibrinolysis.
Serum protein S100B determinations have been recently suggested as markers of traumatic brain injury. However, little is known about the effects of extracranial injuries on S100B levels in trauma patients.
Oxidative DNA lesions have not been well studied in traumatic brain injury (TBI).
The effects of electrical stimulation on the regeneration of transected nerves through silicone rubber conduits may depend on the stimulation protocol.
Two-stage reconstruction is a well-recognized treatment for deep infection of hip joint implants. The purpose of the study was to report the results of our treatment using a standardized protocol.
Chronic wrist pain attributable to scaphoid instability without fixed deformity (dynamic instability) presents a treatment dilemma. The diagnosis usually is delayed, missing the opportunity for direct repair. The intercarpal fusion, tenodesis, and capsulodesis procedures create a fixed deformity. This report presents an outcome study of a new treatment for dynamic scaphoid instability that spanned more than 5 years.
The risk of arterial injury with knee dislocation is well known. The most effective method for rapidly and accurately diagnosing arterial injury in this setting remains a topic of debate. Both physical examination and arteriography have been advocated, although each of these methods has its critics. The authors propose that the ankle-brachial index (ABI) can accurately predict whether patients with knee dislocations have sustained vascular injury.
After some abdominal surgical procedures, the abdominal wall defect may be too large for closure by tension-free approximation of the wound margins because of tissue loss or swelling of the abdominal viscera. A variety of absorbable and nonabsorbable prosthetic materials have been used for emergency abdominal wall reconstruction. Of these materials, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) sheets have proved to be the most efficacious.
This study aimed to describe the injury mechanisms of children involved in side-impact car crashes, particularly as these relate to seating position, and to estimate the danger of the near-side seating position.
This study aimed to determine whether firearms are a more prevalent cause of pediatric death in the United States than in Canada.
Among older trauma patients, those with preexisting chronic medical conditions (CMCs) appear to have an elevated risk of death. Whether this association is dependent on the severity of injury or other occult factors remains unanswered. This study evaluated the association between preexisting CMCs and risk of death among older trauma patients according to injury severity.
The aging of the population in the United States has led to an increase in geriatric trauma. This study aimed to examine the characteristics and outcomes of geriatric trauma patients in New York State.
Currently, there is a greater use of nonlethal force in law enforcement and military operations. Because facial injuries have been observed, there is a need to understand the human response to ballistic impacts involving various regions of the face. This study aimed to establish blunt ballistic response corridors for high-speed, low-mass facial impacts to the forehead, zygoma, and mandible, and to determine how these responses compare with those of the frangible Hybrid III headform. Correlation of the human and dummy responses allows injury risk assessment for munitions used in the field.
This study investigated the validity of similar Injury Severity Scores (ISS) generated by different Abbreviated Injury Scale triplets.
The regionalization of trauma services has been implemented in many health care systems and communities over the past 10 to 20 years. As these trauma systems mature and evolve, changes are made to improve the care and efficiency of the system. Trauma care regionalization was introduced in Quebec in 1993. This study looked at the evolution of trauma care in Quebec over the past 13 years, from the preregionalization era to the present.
Although familiar to every neurologist, postictal paresis (PP) has only rarely been analyzed systematically.
There is still limited knowledge on the location and etiology of transient global amnesia (TGA). MR studies including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) have been unable to demonstrate consistently the location and underlying pathology of TGA.
Pain is common in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) and can precede the diagnosis of the disease. Experimental studies and clinical evidence indicate involvement of basal ganglia and dopaminergic pathways in central pain processing.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the motor cortex modulates acute and chronic pain perception. The authors previously showed that rTMS over the primary motor cortex (M1) inhibited capsaicin-induced acute pain ascending through C-fibers.
People with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) take longer to recognize the laterality of a pictured hand when it coincides with their affected hand. The author explored two aspects of this phenomenon: whether the duration of symptoms relates to the extent of the delay and whether guarding-type mechanisms are involved.
The link of the apolipoprotein (APOE) -epsilon4 allele to Alzheimer disease (AD) has led to studies investigating the role of apoE polymorphisms in Parkinson disease (PD). The authors hypothesized that any association between PD and APOE alleles and genotypes would be too small to be detected or precisely estimated by an individual case-controlled study.
Muscle pathology is often unhelpful in elucidating the specific underlying abnormality in patients with metabolic myopathy with rhabdomyolysis, including very-long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency. Biochemical analyses require large amounts of biopsy samples for each enzyme assay.
Posterior quadrantic dysplasia (PQD), a developmental malformation involving the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes of one cerebral hemisphere, leads to intractable epilepsy.
Left angular gyrus may play a critical role in spelling. However, this traditional view is challenged by reports of agraphia after left temporo-occipital lesions and by functional imaging studies demonstrating activation of left PITC during writing in normal individuals.
Little is known about long-term cognitive functioning and quality of life (QoL) in patients with symptomatic carotid artery occlusion who do not undergo revascularization surgery.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNTs) are associated with medically intractable epilepsy and a favorable prognosis after surgical resection. The authors describe the clinical, radiologic, and pathologic characteristics and outcomes in children after surgical resection of pathologically confirmed DNT to ascertain prognostic features for seizure recurrence following surgery.
Candida albicans is a polymorphic organism which undergoes morphologic transition between yeast, pseudohyphal and hyphal forms. The ability of C. albicans to change from yeast to filamentous types is a major virulence determinant of this organism. However, the exact role of hyphal transformation in establishing oral mucosal infection is still poorly understood.
Serum and urine concentrations of the activation peptide of carboxypeptidase B (CAPAP) and urinary trypsinogen activation peptide (TAP) as prognostic markers in acute pancreatitis were compared.
Whilst lung cancer is the most common form of cancer in England and Wales (annual incidence rate of 50 per 100,000) it does not always receive the policy attention accorded to other types of cancer, such as breast and colorectal. Nevertheless, the burden of lung cancer is significant and the UK NHS Plan for cancer has set out the government's commitment to improving all cancer services. The question faced by the NHS is which interventions are most cost effective in implementing this plan.
Pristinamycin is a bactericidal antibiotic whose spectrum covers the main respiratory pathogens including S. pneumoniae poorly sensitive to penicillin. It has not yet been evaluated in short course treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive bronchitis (AECB).
The incidence of tuberculosis in France is stable at around 10 per 100,000 per year since 1997. However in the Ile-de-France (which includes Paris and its suburbs) high population density, social deprivation and large numbers of immigrants result in the region providing more than half of the total number of cases notified in France.
Sarcoidosis is a diffuse granulomatous inflammatory disorder of unknown aetiology. Involvement of the nasal sinuses has been reported only rarely.
The treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease has progressed considerably over the past 40 Years but, for most patients with advanced disease, medical management does not often produce more than limited benefits, particularly in terms of quality of life.
Over the last decade the surgical treatment of emphysema, which was previously limited to bullectomy, has seen important developments: for carefully selected patients lung Volume reduction surgery and lung transplantation now offer the possibility of real symptomatic improvement and even prolonged survival. Thanks to the thousands of patients who have received these treatments our understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms, surgical techniques, risks and benefits, medium and long-term results, and selection criteria has improved considerably.
The classification of the idiopathic interstitial pneumonias includes seven clinico-pathologic entities. The diagnosis is based on a multidisciplinary approach, integrating the clinical evaluation, the high-resolution computerised tomography, and the pathological pattern.
A definitive diagnosis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis relies on the association of a suggestive clinico-radiological profile and a pathological pattern of usual interstitial pneumonia. Nonspecific interstitial pneumonia is a recently described clinico-pathologic entity, with a better prognosis than that of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Cryptogenic organising pneumonia has been included in the group of idiopathic interstitial pneumonias because of its idiopathic and multifocal characteristics, although it does not predominate in the lung interstitium. Desquamative interstitial pneumonia and respiratory bronchiolitis with interstitial lung disease are rare entities with predominance in young smoking adults. Lymphoid interstitial pneumonia, usually encountered in the context of Sjgren's syndrome, is very rare in its idiopathic form. Acute interstitial pneumonia is responsible for idiopathic acute respiratory distress syndrome.
In the last decade pulmonary rehabilitation has become a well accepted treatment for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) suffering from persistent dyspnea and fatigue, despite appropriate medical treatment.
Patients with COPD frequently have muscular dysfunction that can be corrected by appropriate exercise training programmes. Muscle function as measured by strength and endurance tests exercise capacity and also the health status and quality of life are improved by exercise and endurance training. However, integration of exercise training in a multidisciplinary management programme is necessary to take account of all aspects of the illness.
The nerve growth factor (NGF) is known as a factor involved in neuronal growth and survival. From recent studies it may also be considered as a mediator of inflammation, in particular in the airways.
Several animal studies have shown that NGF may increase the sensory innervation, and participate in the bronchial hyperresponsiveness and inflammation observed in the airways of asthmatic patients. Different cell types are capable of secreting NGF: inflammatory cells that infiltrate the bronchial mucosa, and structural cells such as epithelial cells, smooth muscle cells and pulmonary fibroblasts. Furthermore, increased NGF levels have been detected in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from asthmatic patients.
Domiciliary assisted ventilation (DAV) may be undertaken invasively or non-invasively. Non-invasive DAV is used for patients suffering from alveolar hypoventilation due to restrictive pathology. Invasive DAV is reserved for "indications of necessity" that is when non-invasive ventilation is contraindicated due to the absence of adequate cough and for alveolar hypoventilation leading to hypercapnoea during spontaneous ventilation.
The main pathophysiological limitation to non-invasive ventilation is the interference of the glottis. In this mode the glottis imposes a variable resistance to the ventilation delivered. Its behaviour is more predictable during Volume controlled than during pressure controlled ventilation. The control parameters of a Volume controlled ventilator are very different from those used in invasive ventilation during which the respiratory system may be regarded as a single compartment (provided a cuffed tube bypasses the upper airway). In non-invasive DAV: mode VCM, tidal volume 13 mls kg(-1), rate 20 cycles min(-1), insp/exp ratio 1/1.2. In invasive DAV: mode VCM, tidal volume 8-10 mls kg(-1), rate 12 cycles min(-1), insp/exp ratio depending on the pathology 1/2.
The treatment of a primary or secondary spontaneous pneumothorax remains controversial and many therapeutic options exist. In the event of a first episode of pneumothorax, should the patient be treated by observation, aspiration or thoracic drainage? For patients undergoing a thoracoscopic intervention for a spontaneous pneumothorax which is the best technique to treat the lung and parietal pleura? What are the results of thoracoscopy compared to thoracotomy and are the costs comparable?
Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission for acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive lung disease (COLD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in such patients. Although bacterial and/or viral infections are considered as the major precipitating factor, the antibiotic strategy in this setting is unclear. The potential benefit of routine antibiotic therapy in the absence of evidence of overt infection remains controversial, and has not been adequately studied in patients admitted to the ICU. To assess the benefit (or lack thereof) of routine early systemic antibiotic therapy in patients with COLD admitted to the ICU.
Wheezing is common symptom in infants and is usually due to asthma. However an alternative diagnosis should be sought if there is no reversibility to B2-agonist.
Rituximab is indicated for the treatment of low-grade lymphoma. Pulmonary toxicity related to rituximab is exceptional.
economic cost is a timely topic which will have to be taken in consideration more and more for determining the appropriate indication for surgical procedures. "Health has no price, but it has a cost" is a common proverb urging us to think in terms real cost of a surgical procedure. The purpose of this study is to estimate the real cost of a usual and frequent intervention: removal of osteosynthesis material in mandibular fractures. Real cost was compared with the cost charged by the French health insurance fund.
the position of the marginal branch of the mandicular nerve is crucial for the surgical approach to the sub-mandibular region.
The Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) questionnaire is widely used for the assessment of daytime sleepiness in patients with sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (SAHS). The aim of this study was to develop a Greek version of ESS, bearing in mind that language is a barrier for application in non-English speaking populations.
There is a growing need to evaluate the esthetics of implant-supported crowns and bridges. An important tool for such an evaluation is standardized assessment of the soft and hard peri-implant tissue levels.
Placement of dental implants is considered a successful and predictable procedure. An important biological benefit is the preservation of bone height following implantation. The purpose of this study was to examine the cervical bone loss (CBL) and its correlation with implant characteristics and anatomic factors, 1 to 8 years post-implantation of immediate and delayed implants.
The goal of this study was to assess the variability of peripheral dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (pDEXA) measurements in peri-implant bone defects in dogs.
The aim of the present study was to assess the efficacy of a ready-to-use injectable bone substitute for bone regeneration around dental implants placed into fresh extraction sockets.
The longevity of the clinical benefits of guided tissue regeneration (GTR) has not been fully explored. The aim of this investigation was to assess the long-term survival of GTR treated sites in terms of clinical attachment level (CAL) stability and tooth loss.
Bleeding indices are used as a screen for periodontal disease activity, a measure of disease prevalence, and a measure of effectiveness in clinical trials. Bleeding on probing (BOP) is widely interpreted as a sign of disease activity whereas its absence is interpreted as both a sign and predictor of health. Aspirin use has become increasingly common in the prevention of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. Because of its anti-platelet activity, aspirin is a non-disease factor that has the potential to affect the appearance of BOP. The hypothesis being tested is that short-term aspirin use in doses of 81 mg and 325 mg will increase the number of bleeding sites in a population with gingivitis.
The goal of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a composite bone graft (demineralized freeze-dried bone allograft, calcium sulfate, tetracycline, and porous hydroxyapatite) and calcium sulfate barrier to treat non-furcation osseous defects.
Alterations in sex steroids during pregnancy are associated with the development and exacerbation of reactive lesions involving the gingiva. Currently, few experimental animal models similar to humans are available to examine regulatory pathways involving sex steroids and the periodontium.
Recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (rhBMP-2) in an absorbable collagen sponge (ACS) carrier has been shown to support significant bone formation in the craniofacial skeleton. When used as an onlay, however, rhBMP-2/ACS may become compressed with limited resulting bone formation. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of two space-providing biomaterials, bioactive glass (BG) and demineralized/mineralized bone matrix (DMB), on rhBMP-2/ACS induced alveolar ridge augmentation.
Periodontal ligament (PDL) cells form mineralized nodules in vitro. Ascorbic acid is known to be required in this process, although its effect on osteoblastic differentiation of PDL cells remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to determine the role of ascorbic acid on the early osteoblastic differentiation of PDL cells, with regard to alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, type I collagen production and integrin expression.
An association between race/ethnicity and the composition of the subgingival microbiota has been found in chronic periodontitis. A study was undertaken to determine the characteristics of the subgingival microbiota of chronic periodontitis in Chileans residing in Santiago.
This prospective multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial compared the clinical outcomes of enamel matrix proteins (EMD) versus placement of a bioabsorbable membrane in conjunction with guided tissue regeneration (GTR).
Obtaining predictable and esthetic root coverage has become important. Unfortunately, there is only a limited amount of information available on the long-term results of root coverage procedures. The goal of this study was to evaluate the short-term and long-term root coverage results obtained with an acellular dermal matrix and a subepithelial graft.
The aim of the present study was to compare the ability of the diode laser to detect residual calculus with that of an explorer.
Questions on new bone quality following guided bone regeneration (GBR) with various graft materials and its importance in osseointegration have been raised. This study reports histologic analysis of bone sections from future implant sites at upper and lower jaws that were augmented with bovine porous bone mineral graft material plus a porcine collagen membrane.
Surgical debridement with flap repositioning may result in significant gingival recession. This manuscript reports on a series of cases that were treated for deep periodontal pockets by flap debridement surgery combined with subepitheial connective tissue graft for the prevention of postoperative recession.
The most recent classification of periodontal diseases includes a new section on traumatic gingival lesions. Traumatic lesions of the gingiva are thought to be highly prevalent, yet the periodontal literature contains few references on the topic. The purpose of this article is to present a broad spectrum of traumatic gingival lesions of iatrogenic, accidental, and factitious origin.
Hereditary gingival fibromatosis is a rare, genetically inherited overgrowth condition that is clinically characterized by a benign fibrous enlargement of maxillary and mandibular keratinized gingiva. A syndromic association between gingival fibromatosis and a wide variety of other genetically inherited disorders has been described. However, its coexistence with aggressive periodontitis has not been reported.
Heart transplantation is a therapeutic procedure in which biological, psychological, social and ethical aspects play an important role, none of them has to be underestimated. It is known that the waiting period up to heart transplantation is extremely stressful for patients and their families, causing psychopathological and disadaptive reactions. Aim of the present study was to investigate psychological tract characteristics, stress reactions and quality of life in a group of patients registered for heart transplantation.
Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is an effective treatment for acute respiratory failure in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We assessed the efficacy and safety of this therapy in acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema (ACPE).
Tuberculous lymphadenitis is a relatively rare disease in adults. In the absence of pulmonary tuberculosis, tuberculous lymphadenitis is very difficult to differentiate from other diseases. We described our experiences of patients with tuberculous lymphadenitis.
Caffeine ingestion decreases the insulin sensitivity index (ISI) for an oral-glucose-tolerance test (OGTT) and decreases insulin-induced glucose disposal in lean male subjects during a hyperinsulinemic clamp.
Dietary patterns play an important role in the control of body weight.
Obesity is an established risk factor for gallstones, but whether abdominal adiposity contributes independently to the risk, particularly in men, remains unclear.
Margination occurs when blood borne particles attach to the vessel wall. Triacylglycerol-rich lipoprotein (TRL) particles marginate when they bind to endothelial lipoprotein lipase (LpL).
Glucose intake has been shown to cause an increase in intranuclear nuclear factor-kappa B and a decrease in inhibitor kappa B that are consistent with a proinflammatory effect. We investigated the effect of glucose intake on 2 other proinflammatory transcription factors, activator protein 1 (AP-1) and early growth response 1 (Egr-1), and on the genes regulated by them, ie, the genes for matrix metalloproteinases 2 (MMP-2) and 9 (MMP-9) and tissue factor (TF), respectively.
Because egg yolk has a high cholesterol concentration, limited egg consumption is often suggested to help prevent ischemic heart disease (IHD).
Little is known about how simpler and more available methods to measure change in body fatness compare with criterion methods such as dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in children.
The regression equations of Slaughter and Dezenberg, which are based on mixed ethnic samples, are currently recommended for predicting body fat from skinfold-thickness measures in prepubescent children of African ancestry. These equations contain methodologic problems that could make them inappropriate for African children.
Gallstone disease is a major source of morbidity in the developed countries. Nuts are rich in several compounds that may protect against gallstone disease.
Food reinforcement and dopaminergic activity may influence food consumption, but research on whether they interact has not been performed.
Acetic and propionic acids are produced by colonic bacterial fermentation of unabsorbed carbohydrates and are absorbed into the portal circulation. From there, they travel to the liver, where acetate is a lipogenic substrate and propionate can inhibit lipogenesis. The extent to which peripheral blood short-chain fatty acid concentrations reflect differences in colonic fermentation is uncertain. The unabsorbed sugar lactulose produces mainly acetate when fermented in vitro, whereas L-rhamnose yields propionate.
Earlier studies of the requirement for total sulfur amino acids (SAAs; methionine in the absence of cystine) in healthy, well-nourished Indians indicated a value of 15 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), but it is unknown whether this estimate is applicable to chronically undernourished subjects.
The finding that plasma glutathione turnover decreases as dietary protein intake decreases suggests that the safe amount of dietary protein, although sufficient for maintenance of nitrogen balance, may be insufficient for maintenance of cellular glutathione.
Periodontal disease (PD) is a common chronic inflammatory disease and an important risk factor for tooth loss. Vitamin D might affect periodontal disease risk via an effect on bone mineral density (BMD) or via immunomodulatory effects.
Evidence supports an independent association between plasma total homocysteine concentrations and the risk of vascular disease. Recent epidemiologic studies reappraised the possibility that vascular risk factors might play a role in the pathogenesis not only of vascular dementia (VaD) but also of Alzheimer disease (AD).
Weight loss (WL) reduces bone mass and increases fracture risk. Mechanisms regulating calcium metabolism during WL are unclear.
Lutein is a hydroxy-carotenoid constituting the macular pigment of the human retina. Increasing lutein intake from foods could increase the density of this pigment and decrease the risk of developing macular degeneration. Yellow carrots are a novel food source that could increase lutein consumption.
Sulfiting agents are widely used as food additives. Limits are set on their use in foods because they may adversely affect health. Sulfiting agents are excreted in urine as sulfate, which is indistinguishable from sulfate derived from sulfur amino acids.
Cases of enhanced anticoagulant effect in response to high-dose vitamin E supplementation have been reported among patients taking oral anticoagulants. Although a vitamin E-vitamin K interaction was proposed to underlie this effect, it has not been systematically investigated in adults with normal baseline coagulation status.
Nonheme-iron absorption requires an acidic milieu. Reduced gastric acid output as a consequence of Helicobacter pylori infection could be an important limiting factor for iron absorption.
Dietary selenium intakes in many countries, including the United Kingdom, are lower than international recommendations. No functional consequences of these lower intakes have been recognized, although experimental studies suggest that they might contribute to reduced immune function, increased cancer incidence, and increased susceptibility to viral disease.
Choline is a required nutrient, and humans deprived of choline develop liver damage.
Plant sterols reduce cholesterol absorption, which leads to a decrease in plasma and LDL-cholesterol concentrations. Plant sterols also lower plasma concentrations of carotenoids and alpha-tocopherol, but the mechanism of action is not yet understood.
Multiple micronutrient deficiencies may contribute to low birth weight, which is a major global determinant of mortality.
Genetics and environmental conditions early in life are known to influence height. However, evidence is restricted to studies conducted at a specific age, and thus the effect on the entire growth trajectory has been neglected.
Previous analyses derived the relative risk (RR) of dying as a result of low weight-for-age and calculated the proportion of child deaths worldwide attributable to underweight.
Size in early life is related to adult body mass index, and early environmental influences have been proposed to have lifelong consequences for obesity. However, body mass index also reflects fat-free mass, and few studies have examined the relation between size in early life and direct measures of body composition in older people.
Laboratory studies have shown that n-3 fatty acids inhibit and n-6 fatty acids stimulate prostate tumor growth, but whether the dietary intake of these fatty acids affects prostate cancer risk in humans remains unclear.
The metabolic syndrome is associated with a high risk of cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. Light and moderate alcohol consumption have been associated with reduced cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality.
Moderate alcohol consumption protects against ischemic heart disease, possibly through an antiinflammatory effect. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which alcohol may interfere in the development of atherosclerosis.
The question of whether weight loss increases a person's longevity is important given the high prevalence of obesity and the large number of people trying to lose weight in industrialized countries.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk-reduction practices are suboptimal in populations at high risk for CVD, and this problem may be worse in women than in men.
Few studies have examined patterns and predictors of changes in body weight among adults in late middle age.
Arthritis is the leading cause of disability in the United States. Obesity is a risk factor for arthritis, but the relationship between arthritis and weight has not been well characterized at the population level in the United States. Previous research shows that physicians often fail to advise their obese patients to lose weight.
The positive health effects of physical activity are well known. However, there are few studies of the association between different levels of physical activity and all-cause mortality among elderly people.
Ecologic models are often recommended to promote physical activity, yet sparse data exist on their effectiveness.
This study examined beliefs about potential risk-reduction strategies for tobacco users among a large group of young adults. Strategies examined included switching to low-yield cigarettes, replacing cigarettes with cigars, switching from cigarettes to smokeless tobacco, adopting a healthy diet, and engaging in regular exercise.
Nearly 30 million people in sub-Saharan Africa are infected with HIV. While recent commitment of resources from international donors is heartening, rational use of these resources for AIDS prevention and care will require a major scaling up of HIV diagnostic services in affected countries.
Understanding how environmental attributes can influence particular physical activity behaviors is a public health research priority. Walking is the most common physical activity behavior of adults; environmental innovations may be able to influence rates of participation.
United States public health goals call for increased physician counseling about diet and exercise, but many medical schools lack adequate curriculum on these topics. At Harvard Medical School, second-year students take a preventive medicine and nutrition (PMN) course. This study evaluated the impact of this innovative curriculum on students' confidence about addressing patients' diet and exercise patterns and on their own health habits.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis exerts a complex, mostly inhibitory, effect on the female reproductive system. In addition, the principal regulator of this axis, the hypothalamic neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and its receptors have been identified in most female reproductive tissues, including the ovary, uterus, and placenta. Furthermore, CRH is secreted in peripheral inflammatory sites where it exerts strong inflammatory actions. Antalarmins (CRH receptor type 1 antagonists) have been used to elucidate the roles of CRH in stress, inflammation and reproduction.
During implantation, apoptosis is critical for the appropriate tissue remodeling of the maternal decidua and invasion of the developing embryo, yet the regulation of apoptosis is also imperative for a successful pregnancy. The quick and effective removal of apoptotic cells by tissue macrophages represents an essential process, which prevents the release of self-antigens, and in the case of pregnancy, paternal alloantigens.
It is likely that a large amount of unused and outdated medications exists in households throughout the US; however, the amount and potential costs of these medications are unknown.
FTY720 is a sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor agonist intended for use in immunoprophylaxis regimens to prevent acute rejection after organ transplantation.
Accuracy of abstracts representing original research articles is imperative since these are readily available and biomedical literature readers may not have access to the full-text article. Furthermore, previous reports document discrepancies in published original research abstracts compared with the full-text article.
Fluoroquinolones are recommended for the empiric treatment of urinary tract infection (UTI) in communities in which uropathogen resistance to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) is &gt;or=10% to 20%. However, recent studies also have demonstrated an increase in the isolation of fluoroquinolone-resistant Escherichia coli. Identification of outpatients at increased risk for fluoroquinolone resistance would improve the selection of empiric treatment.
Critically ill cardiothoracic patients are prone to hyperglycemia and an increased risk of surgical site infections postoperatively. Aggressive insulin treatment is required to achieve tight glycemic control (TGC) and improve outcomes.
The treatment of dyslipidemias in orthotopic heart transplant (OHT) recipients is not highlighted in the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel guidelines. Emerging data suggest that hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) safely reduce the risk of transplant rejection and coronary artery vasculopathy in OHT patients.
Dofetilide gained Food and Drug Administration approval for persistent atrial fibrillation/flutter (AFF) based on 2 randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging studies. Concerns of proarrhythmia have prompted the manufacturer to develop specific treatment guidelines.
In clinical practice, new drugs may be used differently than the product labeling recommends. Furthermore, it often takes several years of use before adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are reported.
Drug-drug interactions are one of the main causes of adverse effects. These events have been studied most often in hospital settings; however, investigations on prescribing based on community practice have shown a high prevalence rate of potential drug interactions.
Small studies have reported that vasopressin improves hemodynamic instability in patients with septic shock.
The use of natural products is increasing, but healthcare professionals may underestimate the use of these agents by patients. It is unknown whether natural product use differs between primary care and specialty clinic patients, such as those in a nephrology clinic.
Previous studies have suggested that recommended gastroprotective strategies such as gastroprotective agents (GPAs) and cyclooxygenase (COX) 2 inhibitors may be underutilized among individuals at risk for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID)-related gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding.
Traditional paper professional package inserts (PPIs) are used on a daily basis by a variety of healthcare providers to locate and disseminate drug information. Unfortunately, paper PPIs are sometimes not accessible to the healthcare provider, appear unreadable due to varied font sizes, and are often considered not to be user-friendly. In December 2000, the Food and Drug Administration proposed regulations that would revise the format of PPIs.
Complete AXLND as part of the surgical therapy for breast cancer has come under increased scrutiny due the use of the sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy technique to assess the status of the axillary nodes. As the enthusiasm for the SLN technique has increased, our impression has been that the perceived complication rate from AXLND has increased dramatically while the negative aspects of the SLN technique have been underemphasized.
Neuromonitoring has been advocated to reduce the risk of vocal cord palsy and to predict postoperative vocal cord function.
There is current controversy over the role of TT in the treatment of MG; although there are potential benefits, high rates of complications are not acceptable in surgery for a benign pathology.
Primary gastric lymphomas are non-Hodgkin lymphomas that originate in the stomach and are divided into low-grade (or indolent) and high-grade (or aggressive) types. Low-grade lesions nearly always arise from mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) secondary to chronic Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and disseminate slowly. High-grade lesions may arise from a low grade-MALT component or arise de novo and can spread to lymph nodes, adjacent organs and tissues, or distant sites.
Blunt injury to the descending thoracic aorta remains among the most lethal and morbid of anatomic injuries. Of the techniques of repair which have evolved, "clamp and sew" is simple but has an unacceptable risk of paraplegia. In contrast, partial left heart bypass is more complex but virtually eliminates the risk of paraplegia.
Management of primary gastric lymphoma remains controversial. No controlled clinical trials have evaluated the different therapeutic schedules, and prognostic factors have not been identified in a uniform population.
A reduction of 70% of excess body weight can be achieved after BPD, but there is a risk of malnutrition and diarrhea. This risk may be reduced by pyloric preservation with BPDDS.
Reflux of duodenal juice as well as gastric acid plays an important role in the pathogenesis of BE and adenocarcinoma. Duodenoesophageal reflux (DER) per se induces these diseases without carcinogen. However, it is unclear whether antireflux surgery induces regression of BE and prevents adenocarcinoma.
This study was designed to investigate the early outcomes after surgical treatment of malignant large bowel obstruction (MBO) and to identify risk factors affecting operative mortality.
Virtual reality systems have been proposed for gastroscopy, bronchoscopy, and colonoscopy, as well as for the 3D reconstruction of liver anatomy and hepatic lesions. The impact of these systems in preoperative diagnostics has not been established due to the lack of large clinical series evaluating their reliability.
Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare disease characterized by early intrahepatic and extrahepatic spread, which seriously limits the efficacy of surgery. Establishing an experimental model to study the cholangiocarcinogenesis is desirable.
The poor survival rate after resection of hilar cholangiocarcinoma is considered to be mainly the result of in-hospital death and positive ductal margins.
When allowed by the hepatic functional reserve, surgery is the therapy for HCC on cirrhosis; alternative treatments are proposed because of the high tumor recurrence rate after resection. RFA is being widely adopted to treat HCC.
Pancreatic injury triggers 2 major pathways involved in the systemic effects of severe acute pancreatitis: pro-inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress.
Carcinoid tumors arise from neuroendocrine cells and may develop in almost any organ. Many textbooks and articles represent single institution studies and report varying incidence rates, anatomic distribution of tumors, and patient survival rates. Population-based statistics remain largely unknown.
Intestinal ischemia after hemorrhagic shock results in gut barrier dysfunction and the subsequent production of biologically active and tissue injurious factors by the ischemic gut. These factors are carried in the mesenteric lymph and reach the systemic circulation via the mesenteric lymph, thereby ultimately resulting in distant organ injury. Although studies have established that trauma-hemorrhagic (T/HS) shock but not trauma-sham-shock (T/SS) mesenteric lymph is cytotoxic to endothelial cells, whether T/HS lymph-induced endothelial cell death occurs via an apoptotic or a necrotic pathway is unknown. The mechanisms underlying T/HS lymph-induced cytotoxicity are likewise unknown.
We have previously demonstrated that norepinephrine stimulated myelopoiesis after burn injury and sepsis, but the site of this stimulation in monocyte development is unknown. In the present study the influence of norepinephrine on the developmental hierarchy of bone marrow cells after thermal injury and sepsis was determined by assessing the clonogenic potential and LPS-stimulated cytokine responses of mature macrophages derived from CD117 and ER-MP12 bone marrow progenitor cells.
The development of treatment protocols for MODS requires elucidation of the mechanisms and mediators involved. To devise logical interventions, it is necessary to collect data on cytokine expression at tissue level during the development of MODS.
Right lobe LDLT has been increasingly performed for adults with end-stage liver disease. Numerous modifications in technique have been introduced, and a learning curve is likely in view of its complexity.
The major concern of live donor liver transplantation is small-for-size graft injury at the early phase after transplantation. Novel therapeutic strategies should be investigated.
In the few articles that have considered this problem, renal function was evaluated only by biochemical tests, which are inadequate in demonstrating small changes in renal function and in appreciating the worsening of a single kidney's function.
Incisional hernias complicate 11% of abdominal wall closures, resulting in 200,000 incisional hernia repairs in the United States each year. Mechanical improvements alone in mesh, suture material, and surgical technique have failed to reduce the high rate of fascial wound failure.
The method of anesthesia used for hernia repair is generally assumed not to affect the long-term outcome. The few studies on the topic have rendered conflicting results.
Postsurgical regrowth or recurrence of nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (NFAs) is not uncommon and often requires further surgery or radiotherapy (DXT). Routine postoperative DXT increases the incidence of hypopituitarism, which is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Identification of genetic abnormalities in the tumour tissue, which can predict recurrence, may allow targeting DXT to the most appropriate patients.
Palpable and measurable glandular breast tissue is a rare finding in prepubertal boys and warrants thorough evaluation to rule out an underlying pathology.
In patients with hypoadrenalism, it is often difficult to assess the optimal dose of glucocorticoid replacement. Serial serum cortisol measurements for a cortisol day curve are sometimes used, but this has low acceptability for patients. In this study, we evaluate the reliability of saliva and capillary bloodspot cortisol as alternative methods in assessing cortisol profiles in hypoadrenal patients on hydrocortisone replacement.
In some instances, thyroid cancer may be diagnosed with histological examination after resection of putative or suspected benign nodule. In these cases, completion thyroidectomy followed by radioiodine ablation is usually recommended to prevent recurrence. If small intrathyroidal cancer is found, completion thyroidectomy may not be performed. Many patients have separate cancers in the contralateral lobe and in these cases completion thyroidectomy is essential even though primary tumour is small and limited within thyroid.
Increasing health service expenditure, on the one hand, and the politically declared objective of stability of statutory contributions and restriction of public funds, on the other hand, have been central points in the political and social discussion for several years.
Racial and ethnic minority patients often receive differential medical care compared to Caucasians. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association of race and ethnicity with rates of alcohol and drug testing among adult US trauma patients.
Adherence to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) of 95% or greater seems to be required for successful treatment of HIV/AIDS. Efforts to simplify regimens to improve adherence are ongoing, including the advent of once-daily (QD) dosing regimens, which are presumed to be beneficial, although data regarding their overall impact on adherence are not yet available.
A consensus conference was held to discuss priorities for antiretroviral therapy (ART) research in Zambia, one of the world's most heavily HIV-afflicted nations. Zambia, like other resource-limited settings, has increasing access to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) because of declining drug costs, use of government-purchased generic medications, and increased global donations. For sustained delivery of care with HAART in a resource-constrained medical and public health context, operational research is required and clinical trials are desirable. The priority areas for research are most relevant today given the increasing availability of HAART.
Some candidate HIV-1 vaccines may not prevent HIV-1 infection but may alter the course of disease. Surrogate endpoints based on early laboratory makers in HIV-1-infected persons who are antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naive will be useful for evaluating vaccine efficacy in slowing disease progression (VEp). We examined pretreatment HIV-1 viral loads and CD4 cell counts in recent HIV-1 seroconverters to inform selection of these endpoints.
Cancer risks in persons with AIDS are increased, but risks in elderly persons with AIDS (EPWAs) have not been previously described.
Although Weber type B ankle fractures are often considered benign with a good prognosis, evidence from observational studies suggests that 17% to 24% of such patients may have less satisfactory outcomes. Although the explanation for variability in outcomes remains unclear, previous studies of other surgical procedures have suggested nonsurgery-related causes account for much of the variability in outcomes.
Besides laparoscopic pyloromyotomy, the operation for pyloric stenosis has been performed using 2 standard open surgical exposures: the right upper quadrant (RUQ) incision and the semi-circumumbilical (UMB) incision. The aim of this study was to compare the morbidity and cosmetic results of both open exposures.
The Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS) previously found increased risk for dementia and no effect on mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in women treated with conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) plus medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA).
The Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS) previously reported that estrogen plus progestin therapy does not protect cognition among women aged 65 years or older. The effect of estrogen-alone therapy, also evaluated in WHIMS, on cognition has not been established for this population.
The role of estrogens in ischemic heart disease (IHD) is uncertain. Evidence suggests that genetic variations in the estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) gene may influence IHD risk, but the role of common sequence variations in the ESR1 gene is unclear.
Healthy lifestyle factors are associated with maintenance of erectile function in men.
Most US women who have undergone hysterectomy are not at risk of cervical cancer-they underwent the procedure for benign disease and they no longer have a cervix. In 1996, the US Preventive Services Task Force recommended that routine Papanicolaou (Pap) smear screening is unnecessary for these women.
High out-of-pocket expenditures for prescription medications could lead people with chronic illnesses to restrict their use of these medications. Whether adults experience adverse health outcomes after having restricted medication use because of cost is not known.
Canadians spent almost dollars 15 billion, over dollars 460 per capita, on prescription drugs in 2002, yet there is little published evidence regarding the nature and causes of these expenditures.
Although there is a great concern regarding rational use of drugs, the available evidence for the most appropriate strategies to improve prescribing is scarce.
Reference drug pricing (RP) is a cost-sharing strategy commonly used to control drug expenditures. Under RP, a benefit plan fully reimburses medications that are equally or less expensive than the reference price, and requires patients to pay the extra cost of therapeutically equivalent but higher priced drugs. Critics argued that drug plan savings are offset by administrative costs and increased spending on other health services.
Appropriate outpatient CHF management can improve patient well-being and reduce the need for costly inpatient care. Yet, little is known regarding outpatient CHF management or whether differences in this care exist by race/ethnicity.
Clinical and health services interventions should be evaluated for their effectiveness.
Although the majority of studies examining racial/ethnic disparities in health care have focused on the characteristics of the individual, more recently there has been growing attention to the notion that an individual's health practices could be influenced by the characteristics of the place where they reside.
Dipropylene glycol is found in antifreeze, air fresheners, cosmetic products, solvents, and plastics. We studied the effects of dipropylene glycol on male and female rats and mice to identify potential or cancer-related hazards to humans.
Rheumatology training has undergone significant changes in the last decade with Calmanization, implementation of the New Deal for junior doctors and newer educational strategies for improving musculoskeletal training, like a core curriculum. However, concerns have been expressed about the quality of postgraduate training programmes in the UK.
Systemic rheumatoid vasculitis (SRV) is a relatively rare complication of RA. The incidence of SRV appeared to increase during the 1970s and 1980s from 6.0 to 12.5/million. During the 1990s there have been major changes in the treatment of RA, with more aggressive control of inflammation. Our aim was to study the epidemiology of SRV in a stable, well-defined population over a 15-yr period.
The use of a laparoscopic hand-assist device may aid in the identification of accessory spleens (ASs) and provide similar benefits to a conventional laparoscopic procedure. A patient with previous splenectomy for immune thrombocytopenic pupusa (ITP) and recurrent thrombocytopenia is reported.
By and large, the limited world experience with laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) has been unfavorable, but the laparoscopic hand-assisted approach to PD has recently shown promising results. We report the first successful UK experience with laparoscopic hand-assisted PD (LHAPD).
Supplementary material (1D 13C NMR spectra of the 13C-labeled and unlabeled polymers) is available in the online version of this article at http://dx.doi.org/100.1007/s00216-003-2402-3.
Supplementary material is available in the online version of this article at http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00216-003-2457-1. The following Matlab and Mathematica files are made available: Plot_Raw_DOSY.m, Fit_Two_Component.m (which calls One_Gaussian_LEASTSQ.m, Two_Gaussian_LEASTSQ.m, and pFTest.m), and DOSY_theory.nb. Note: Matlab v5.2 optimization toolbox, as supplied, lacked a confidence interval subroutine; upon our request, confint.m was provided to the authors by Mathworks, Inc. Newer versions of Matlab have a similar program already included in the optimization.
Supplementary material is available for this article if you access the article at http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00216-004-2494-4. A link in the frame on the left on that page takes you directly to the supplementary material.
Major efforts are being directed at the early diagnosis of breast cancer. The diagnosis rate of non-palpable tumors is steadily growing as a result of increased screening by mammography. In most patients with non-palpable lesions, percutaneous image-guided biopsies have replaced wire localization with surgical excision for obtaining tissue diagnosis. In recent years the Israel Ministry of Health initiated a mammograpy screening program. Percutaneous image-guided biopsies have also become widely available.
The role of prostatic fossa radiation as salvage therapy in the setting of a rising prostate-specific antigen following radical prostatectomy is not well defined.
Although the home is perceived to be a safe haven, it is a scene of numerous injuries.
Laryngeal obstruction due to bilateral vocal cord immobility in adduction may cause dyspnea, hoarseness and dysphagia and can lead to dependence on a tracheostomy. Treatment poses a challenge because of the opposing functions of the larynx and the risk of neck and laryngeal tissue damage.
Contralateral exploration of the groin has been common practice among pediatric surgeons for nearly 50 years, based on the high incidence of patent processus vaginalis on the contralateral side with the potential for the subsequent development of a hernia.
Dysphagia is a common disorder among the elderly population. As many as 50% of nursing home residents suffer from dysphagia. It is important to identify patients at increased risk for colonization of dental and denture plaque by pathogenic organisms in order to prevent associated disease.
The external approach is the golden standard for sinonasal tumor removal but is associated with several side effects, including facial scars, intracranial and extracranial complications, a long hospitalization period and high costs. Endoscopic sinus surgery enables resection of benign and selected malignant sinonasal tumors and has the advantages of no facial scars, better functional and structural preservation of the sinonasal complex, minimal trauma to surrounding tissue, a shorter hospitalization stay and lower costs.
echocardiographic evaluation in neonates with persistent pulmonary artery hypertension is often limited to pressure measurements and analysis of pulmonary artery blood flow. The prognostic significance of a more detailed analysis, in particular of the extra-pulmonary shunt, is not known.
Necrotic arachnidism continues to be attributed to wolf spider bites. This study investigates the clinical effects of bites by wolf spiders in Australia (family Lycosidae).
Fipronil which has initiated the new generation of insecticides and possesses greater affinity at GABA receptors in insects than humans is supposed to be safer than the old generation of insecticides. Dermal and inhalation exposure to fipronil has not been reported in the literature.
Few cases of pregnancy following endometrial ablation have been reported. Placenta accreta and poor perinatal outcome are potential risks due to underlying endometrial destruction and uterine scarring.
Interval delivery of the fetuses in multiple gestations has been shown to increase perinatal survival.
Owing to the prevalence of diabetes mellitus, spinal injuries and aggressive surgical treatment of cancer, the number of younger patients with retrograde ejaculation is increasing. Since medical treatment to restore antegrade ejaculation often fails, several options for accomplishing insemination by these patients, including the use of sperm-rich urine obtained after masturbation and in vitro fertilization with sperm retrieved from the seminal tract, have been reported. We used the least invasive and most inexpensive procedure in a patient/couple with this condition.
Placental site trophoblastic tumor (PSTT) is the least common form of gestational trophoblastic disease. Occurrence of PSTT after menopause is extremely rare.
Cancer is an uncommon diagnosis during pregnancy. Advanced disease is unusual; metastasis to the placenta is exceptionally rare. Primary cancers that have been reported to produce placental metastasis include melanoma, breast, hematologic and lung.
Vulvar adhesions are a rarely reported but clinically recognized complication of severe ulcerations following herpes genitalis. The condition is avoidable with adequate pharmacologic treatment, hygiene, separation of the labia and topical application of skin emollients.
Hodgkin's disease occurs frequently in women of reproductive age. Anthracyclines in general and doxorubicin in particular are integral parts of therapy.
Malignant hemangiopericytoma (MHPC) is a rare vascular tumor and has been reported to occur in the musculature of the extremities, retroperitoneum and pelvis. Omental hemangiopericytomas (HPCs) are extremely rare. Synovial sarcomas and solitary fibrous tumors share histologic features with HPCs, causing diagnostic difficulties. Immunohistochemistry is essential for the diagnosis.
Acute upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding is a cause of significant morbidity and mortality and is a reason for urgent endoscopy. Besides an age and associated diseases, prognosis of patients influence also localisation and type of bleeding. The aim of our retrospective analysis was to discover causes of bleeding into upper GI tract and its characteristics over a 4 year period.
This purpose of this study was to examine whether survival is affected when laparoscopic resections for colorectal cancer are converted to open surgery.
