These data suggest that short-term sodium loading may suppress the sympathetic activity, but long-term sodium loading may increase the activity of the sympathoadrenomedullary system with the decrease of renal dopamine receptor concentration. Increased catecholamines and decreased renal dopamine after long-term sodium loading may contribute to sodium-dependent hypertension.
symptoms of disordered upper gastrointestinal motor activity may be mistaken as indicating primary anorexia nervosa; clinical evaluation of patients with presumed primary anorexia nervosa should rule out the possibility that disordered oesophageal motor activity underlies the symptoms; delayed gastric emptying is a frequent feature in primary anorexia nervosa and might be returned to normal with domperidone.
This equipment is simple, inexpensive, and readily available. Further, it permits pulmonary function testing whether or not a tracheostomy tube is in place, an advantage if variable extrathoracic upper airway obstruction is a consideration. If the patient has a cuffed tracheostomy tube in place, the PFT equipment can be connected directly to the tube. We have found that this apparatus and technique are well tolerated and that test results are reproducible.
E. coli endotoxin can exacerbate ischemic renal injury without compromising renal hemodynamics. This action appears to be mediated by an adverse effect of endotoxin on critical subcellular determinants of ischemic tissue injury.
Instability of the hip joint (abnormal laxity) is a feature of hip dysplasia in dogs and congenital dislocation of the hip in children. The canine disease can provide a valuable model in which to examine the pathogenesis of hip instability. The model may be useful to test prophylactic procedures to prevent joint instability and thus ameliorate disease.
Ultrastructural and biochemical studies of tendon diseases need a normal comparison. Out ultrastructural and biochemical findings in aging tendon may be useful in that regard. The presence of actin and myosin in tendon cells could be related to some aspects of tendon physiology and pathology.
In vitro tests such as determinations of the minimum inhibitory concentration and the minimum bactericidal concentration, and the serum bactericidal test, can provide valuable guides for the determination of minimum goals for antibiotic therapy. These in vitro tests were related to concentrations of antibiotics in tissue assessed by in vivo bacterial challenge tests and were found to be predictive of efficacy in vivo.
In neurosurgery, Laser is obligatory in sphenoid ridge meningioma to dissect the internal carotid artery, middle cerebral artery, cavernous sinus, sphenoid ridge, etc. It is very useful in glioma, especially glioblastoma, considering shortened surgical duration, decreased blood loss and extended tumor resection. Laser surgery is proposed as most appropriate for brain tumors in elderly and poor risk cases mainly for its vaporizing function.
Previously to keratorefractive procedure is advisable to have pre-treatment refraction and keratometry (K and method) registered: Kpre value is critical to calculate the ELP.
The Ex-PRESS implant is an effective and safe alternative to standard trabeculectomy in selected cases which makes possible to reduce remarkably the classic early postoperative complications associated with trabeculectomy.
Rimexolone is as efficient and safe as dexamethasone for the treatment of patients undergoing cataract extraction.
The RNFL average thickness measured by OCT III Stratus showed an increase one month after cataract surgery. This phenomenon is accompanied with an improvement in signal quality.
It is proposed the multifactorial etiology in the cases of corneal melting related to the use of NSAID and it is recommended an reasonable use of them in each situation and to check the possible comorbility of other agents.
Polymorphisms in TLR-4 may be associated with a decreased risk of CP. Polymorphisms in IL-6 or IL-4 may act as susceptibility genes, in the presence of viral exposure, for the development of hemiplegic and quadriplegic CP. These associations require confirmation but they suggest a hypothesis for CP causation due to double jeopardy from neurotropic viral exposure and genetic susceptibility to infection.
When the karyotype and morphology scan are normal, the outcome is often good in spite of an extremely large NT. However, even a subtle ultrasound anomaly can indicate a genetic syndrome and echocardiography cannot exclude mild cardiac abnormalities.
If the PAPP-A level is &lt; or = 0.2 MoM and the karyotype is normal, there is an increased risk of adverse outcome. Even with PAPP-A below 0.1 MoM, a good outcome can be expected in 60% of cases. Careful morphological assessment is suggested and later monitoring of fetal growth and well-being.
Intraoperative digital cervical dilatation during elective caesarean section did not reduce blood loss and postoperative infectious morbidity. The routine digital cervical dilatation during elective caesarean section is not recommended.
Antenatal teaching to ensure effective maternal pushing in labour did not result in altered obstetric outcomes relative to the control group. However, there was a measurable qualitative effect from the intervention in that women clearly felt the education sessions to be helpful.
Significant differences exist between rural and metropolitan IODMs in terms of less attendance at antenatal consultations, less neonatal withdrawal requiring treatment, shorter average length of hospital stay for the infant and less documented DoCS involvement. These differences maybe a reflection of a different diagnostic and management approach. Ethnicity had no major clinical impact in either the rural or the metropolitan settings. Future research comparing the long-term outcomes would be of interest.
The percentage of unexplained stillbirths is lower than the national average in a hospital using the Perinatal Mortality Audit Guidelines. However, overall compliance is low, suggesting a targeted approach to investigation is used by clinicians despite a policy that aims to be non-selective. Autopsy and placental examination are the most useful investigations in assisting formal classification of cause of death.
Birth centres vary in their philosophies, characteristics and service delivery.
Cervical parakeratosis/hyperkeratosis is an important cause for the negative results of Pap and HPV tests in LSIL, and practising gynaecologist and pathologist should be aware of this possible diagnostic dilemma.
A significant lack of information regarding the availability, methods of action and limitations of EC was noted in this well-educated population. There was also a high proportion of participants who felt unable to access EC in a pharmacy where they might be known, a factor limiting accessibility of the method in small town and community settings.
Laparoscopic skills workshops can improve both knowledge base and motor skills. Such courses result in a short-term measurable improvement. Future studies should focus on assessing the impact of such 'hands-on' courses to see if these skills are transferred to the operating room.
These data contribute further evidence that LNG-IUS is a safe and effective method for treating non-atypical EH. Whether LNG-IUS could provide a safe and cost-effective alternative to hysterectomy for atypical EH warrants further examination.
The epidemiology and clinical impact of high-risk HPV infection for women in Southern Malaysia and Singapore were indistinguishable from experience elsewhere. The apparent moderately high incidence of cervical cancer was explainable by suboptimal screening program.
The HOME FAST can predict falls in older people and is responsive to change.
NAs represent a majority of the staff in Australian RACFs and they have a significant role in clinical care. There is a need to ensure that NAs are adequately prepared and supported in their role.
The home care clients surveyed have many of the risk factors associated with osteoporosis and fracture. A large number reported that they had already sustained fractures that can be attributed to osteoporosis. Despite this, a minority have been assessed or treated for osteoporosis.
Reciprocal intergenerational transfers contribute to improvement in subjective health of older people, while increased support through demand-based transfers appears to result in deterioration of their health.
Slower IT predicts difficulties up to 4 years later in everyday functioning of elderly adults, providing discriminant validation for IT as a biomarker for future changes.
A small increase in fall risk may exist immediately following physical activity and older people may need to exercise caution following moderate intensity bouts of physical activity to prevent falling.
Biological models derived from experimental data can never be validated. In fact, in order to understand biological function one should try to invalidate models that are incompatible with available data. This work describes a framework for invalidating both continuous and discrete-time ODE models based on convex optimization techniques. The methodology does not require any simulation of the candidate models; the algorithms presented in this paper have a worst case polynomial time complexity and can provide an exact answer to the invalidation problem.
Our Text Mining application is available online on the ERIC website (http://www.ericbrc.org/portal/eric/articles). The information retrieval interface displays a list of recently published enteropathogen literature abstracts, and also provides a search interface to execute custom queries by keyword, date range, etc. Upon selection, processed abstracts and the entities and relations extracted from them are retrieved from a relational database and marked up to highlight the entities and relations. The abstract also provides links from extracted genes and gene products to the ERIC Annotations database, thus providing access to comprehensive genomic annotations and adding value to both the text-mining and annotations systems.
The application of this method to a large dataset of binding pockets allows the identification of recurring protein motifs that bind specific ligand fragments, even in the context of molecules with a different overall structure. In addition some of these motifs are present in a high number of evolutionarily unrelated proteins.
CXCR4 expression in primary HCCs may be an independent risk factor for bone metastasis and may be associated with poor clinical outcome.
Using the SIPP may prevent underdiagnosis of early symptoms reflecting psychosocial problems, should facilitate communication between physicians and patients about psychosocial distress and may contribute to adequate referral to relevant (psychosocial) caregivers.
Our results suggest that NKp30, NKp46 and NKG2D down-regulation represent an evasion mechanism associated to low NK cell activity, HPV-16 infection and cervical cancer progression.
DCA regulates both apoptosis and COX-2-regulated cell survival in esophageal cells suggesting that the balance between these two opposing signals may determine the transformation potential of DCA as a component of the refluxate.
This will be a very extensive investigation of a wide range of risk predictors in acute chest pain patients. New reliable fast and cheap diagnostic algorithm resulting from the test results might improve chest pain patients' prognosis, and reduce unnecessary costs and diagnostic complications.
In embryonic stem cells where (anti-proliferative) p53 activity is not necessary, or even unfavorable, p53 is retained in the cytoplasm and prevented from activating its target genes. However, if its activity is beneficial or required, p53 is allowed to accumulate in the nucleus and activates its target genes, even in embryonic stem cells.
Copulation time is a trait subject to sexual conflict. Mating durations exceeding female optima serve males as a form of 'extended mate guarding': by inducing mating refractoriness in the female, a male extends the time over which its sperm is exclusively used to sire progeny and reduces the likelihood of the female being reinseminated by a competitor.
This study underlines the breadth of PCP concerns related to transition of diabetes care and the importance of this topic to them. While tools that promote timely information flow and care planning are cornerstones to successful transition, and may be sufficient for some practitioners, appropriately resourced decision support and education strategies should also be available to enhance PCP capacity and readiness to resume diabetes care after referral to a specialist center. Characteristics of the patient-care provider relationship that impact discharge were identified and are worthy of further research.
Here we propose a novel statistical framework in which existing notions of causal mediation are formalized into a hypothesis test, thus providing a standard quantitative measure of uncertainty in the form of a p-value. The method is theoretically and computationally accessible and with the provided software may prove a useful tool in disentangling molecular relationships.
This work begins the process of identifying functional RNA motifs present in the metagenomic data and illustrates how existing completed genomes may be used to aid in this task.
There are many sources of market failure in health care that undermine the efficiency of chronic disease management. These include incomplete information as well as information asymmetry between providers and consumers, the effect of externalities on consumer behaviour, and the divergence between social and private time preference rates. This has seen government and policy interventions to address both market failures and distributional issues resulting from the inability of private markets to reach an efficient and equitable distribution of resources. However, these have introduced a series of policy failures such as distorted re-imbursement arrangements across modalities and delivery settings.
The paper concludes that market failure resulting from a preference of individuals for 'immediate gratification' in the form of health care and disease management, rather than preventative services, where the benefits are delayed, has a major impact on achieving an efficient allocation of resources in markets for the management of chronic diseases. This distortion is compounded by government health policy that tends to favour medical and pharmaceutical interventions further contributing to distortions in the allocation of resources and inefficiencies in the management of chronic disease.
Differences in radio-sensitivities of chromosomes have implications in genetic damage, chromosome organization, and chromosome function. Designing research experiments based on our vital findings may bring benefit to radiation-induced risk assessment, therapeutics and development of chromosome specific biomarkers.
The differences in the kinetic properties and the l-leucine feedback inhibition between the two M. tuberculosis alpha-IPMS proteins containing low and high numbers of VNTR indicate that a large VNTR insertion affects protein structure and function. Demonstration of l-leucine binding to alpha-IPMS-14CR would confirm whether or not alpha-IPMS-14CR responds to end-product feedback inhibition.
Our studies have established that the beta-proteobacterium Variovorax paradoxus displays a number of distinct physiologies when grown on surfaces, indicative of a complex response to several growth parameters. We have identified a number of factors that drive sessile and motile surface phenotypes. This work forms a basis for future studies using this genetically tractable soil bacterium to study the regulation of microbial development on surfaces.
The analysis indicates that dementia and concomitant medication are factors in PD associated with psychotic symptoms. Furthermore, different dopaminergic drugs showed markedly different associations with psychotic symptoms.
The prevalence of caries was found to be low. The school children with the higher socioeconomic status formed the high risk group.
We show that antenna proteins play a dual role in Arabidopsis thaliana Photosystem I photoprotection: first, a Photosystem I with an intact antenna system is more resistant to high light because of a reduced production of reactive oxygen species and, second, antenna chlorophyll-proteins are the first target of high light damages. When photoprotection mechanisms become insufficient, the antenna chlorophyll proteins act as fuses: LHCI chlorophylls are degraded while the reaction center photochemical activity is maintained. Differences with respect to photoprotection strategy in Photosystem II, where the reaction center is the first target of photoinhibition, are discussed.
The study provides evidence on structural and function abnormalities of the insular cortex in patients with PTSD. Reduced grey-matter volume in insular cortex may be associated with declarative memory deficits in patients with PTSD.
Gender differences in weight perception, body dissatisfaction, and weight control practices exist among African American adolescents. One-third did not appropriately classify their weight status. Weight perception and body dissatisfaction are correlates of weight control practices. Adolescents attempting to lose weight need be empowered to make adequate desirable behavioral changes.
Some monks were smokers, whilst they, in fact, should be used as non-smoking role models. There was no anti-smoking policy in temples. This needs to be addressed when setting up smoke-free policies at temples.
Our analysis suggests that GenBank contains molecular sequences from a range of disciplines beyond biomedicine, the initial scope of PubMed. The findings thus suggest opportunities to develop mechanisms for integrating biological knowledge beyond the biomedical field.
This reproducible, site-specific and quantitative method for methylation determination of PRF1 based on pyrosequencing without cloning is well suited for large-scale molecular epidemiologic studies of diseases with immune dysfunction. PBMC DNA may be better suited than whole blood DNA for examining methylation levels in genes associated with immune function.
We conclude that DNA extracted from FTA cards by the GenSolve kit is of sufficiently high quality to produce results comparable to those obtained from DNA extracted from whole blood when assayed by the Illumina iSelect technology. Additionally, we validate the use of nasal swabs as an alternative to venous blood or buccal samples from animal subjects for reliably producing high quality genotypes on this platform.
In patients without established cardiovascular disease but with cardiovascular risk factors, statin use was associated with significantly improved survival and large reductions in the risk of major cardiovascular events.
Recurrent acute otitis media occurred more often in the children originally treated with amoxicillin. This is another argument for judicious use of antibiotics in children with acute otitis media. Trial registration Netherlands Trial Register NTR1426.
PUVA treatment exerts anti-inflammatory effects by inducing apoptosis and apoptotic cell-derived blebs with immune suppressive surface composition.
Taken together, our data demonstrated that miR-16 can negatively regulate two new targets, HMGA1 and caprin-1, which are involved in cell proliferation. In addition, we also showed that the inhibition of cyclin E expression was due, at least in part, to a decrease in its mRNA stability.
Under angiogenic conditions, combining VEGF-A with HGF can promote neovascularization by enhancing intracellular signalling and allowing more finely regulated control of the signalling molecules involved in the regulation of the cytoskeleton and cellular migration and morphogenesis.
These results indicate that emerin-prelamin A interplay influences nuclear organization. This finding may be relevant to the understanding of laminopathies.
Measuring cervical resistivity by a single observer with both the 3 and 12 mm probes is highly repeatable whilst inter-observer reproducibility is poor with the 3 mm probe but moderately good when the 12 mm probe is firmly applied to the cervix in the frequency range 9.8 to 156 kHz, consistent with our observations of probe performance in clinical trials.
There is a critical period immediately after the diagnosis of cancer during which the excess risk of suicide is particularly high. Carers need to be aware of the importance of attending to both the physical and emotional needs of cancer patients and cancer survivors.
Our result indicates that an immunohistochemistry-based UHRF1 detection in urine sediment or surgical specimens can be a sensitive and cancer-specific diagnostic and/or prognosis method, and may greatly improve the current diagnosis based on cytology.
These results suggest that a low-cost genetic screening for only the four prominent BRCA1 mutations may be advisable to all early-onset breast cancer patients of Greek origin.
Capecitabine plus oxaliplatin (XELOX) as first-line and second-line chemotherapy was 'dominant'. In terms of effectiveness and cost, XELOX was superior to FOLFOX4.
Our results and earlier reports suggest that AKT1 mutations might be mutually exclusive with other PI3K-AKT-activating alterations, although PIK3CA mutations frequently coexist with other alterations (such as HER2, K-Ras and PTEN) in several types of tumours.
Our results most importantly show that stroma related substances can be evaluated as potential cancer biomarkers, and thereby underline the importance of the tumour microenvironment also in this context.
The use of serum ER-alpha and ER-beta bioactivity assays as clinical tools in the management of breast cancer warrants further research. Future studies will dictate whether surrogate markers of ER-alpha and ER-beta bioactivity will provide a means to monitor the efficacy of anti-endocrine, adjuvant and chemopreventive strategies.
Using this system, treatment strategy for locally advanced rectal cancers can be determined before chemoradiation.
This is the first report of TOPK activity in Ewing sarcoma and suggests a significant role of this MAPKK-like protein kinase in the Ewing sarcoma biology.
Taken together, our data suggest that small-molecule fluorophores, not QDs, are suitable to detect the expression and downregulation of IGF1R in vivo.
The demonstration of RH1 efficacy against paediatric tumour cell lines, which was performed concurrently with the adult Phase 1 Trial, suggests that this agent may have clinical usefulness in childhood cancer.
The observed synergy between dasatinib and doxorubicin warrants the re-evaluation of dasatinib as an effective agent in multi-drug regimens for the treatment of invasive breast cancers.
We concluded that, as assessed by quantitative immunohistochemistry, c Kit is an independent prognostic indicator that could also potentially serve as a target for specific therapy in breast carcinomas.
HIFU is a minimally invasive, day-case ablative technique that can achieve good biochemical outcomes in the short term with minimal urinary incontinence and acceptable levels of erectile dysfunction. Long-term outcome needs further evaluation and the inception of an international registry for cases treated using HIFU will significantly aid this health technology assessment.
These data suggest that in these cells COX-2 induction may be mediated through activation of the canonical NF-kappaB pathway. Finally, the lack of association between COX-2, NF-kappaB-p65 or IKKalpha in stromal cells with the clinical severity of colorectal cancer as determined by Duke's stage, suggests that COX-2, NF-kappaB-p65 and IKKalpha expression are possibly early post-initiation events, which could be involved in tumour progression.
We confirmed that UBE2C protein measured by IHC could be used as a prognostic marker in N+ breast cancer. The potential predictive interest of UBE2C as a marker of proteasome activity needs further investigations.
Although p53, EGFR and HER-2/neu status modestly influences survival, these markers are, by themselves, unlikely to be useful as prognostic markers in clinical practice. Our study highlights the need for well-defined, prospective clinical trials and more complete reporting of results of prognostic factor studies.
The transplantation of pluripotent ES cells into seminiferous tubules efficiently recapitulates the early stages of development of teratocarcinomas. Consequently, this method constitutes a novel in vivo model to study the mechanisms of invasion and progression of experimental germinal tumours.
In this prospective study, red meat, MeIQx, and dietary iron elevated the risk of invasive breast cancer, but there was no linear trend in the association except for dietary iron.
These data emphasise the necessity to differentiate between dVIN- and uVIN-related vulvar tumours and to examine the entire lower female ano-genital tract once an uVIN-related lesion is found.
The heavy burden of HPV infection and severe cervical lesions in Guinean women calls for new effective interventions. Sixty-three per cent of cervical cancers are theoretically preventable by HPV16/18 vaccines in Guinea; perhaps more if some cross-protection exists with HPV45.
The Taiwan national programme has significantly decreased invasive cervical cancer.
In this large retrospective series, the type of KIT exon 11 mutation was correlated with the origin of GIST, but not with prognosis or response to imatinib.
ELK1 and ESRRA may be considered as potential regulators of the DAP3 gene expression. DAP3 may participate in mitochondrial maintenance and play a role in the balance between mitochondrial homoeostasis and tumourigenesis.
The incidence of some cancers may be lower in fish eaters and vegetarians than in meat eaters.
These data indicate that MGMT methylation is prognostically significant in glioblastomas given chemoradiotherapy in the routine clinic; furthermore, the extent of methylation may be used to provide additional prognostic stratification.
Our findings suggest that high intake of isoflavones, as reflected by urinary excretion of daidzein and genistein, may be protective against prostate cancer.
We conclude that the CYGB gene is regulated by both promoter methylation and tumour hypoxia in HNSCC and that increased expression of this gene correlates with clincopathological measures of a tumour's biological aggression.
Although UTI is often self-limiting, when taking patient histories and formulating their management strategies clinicians need to take into account women's often painful experience, their efforts to resolve symptoms prior to consulting, and their fears that the symptoms may indicate something more serious than a UTI.
Perceptions that individuals' use health services inappropriately are unlikely to explain differences in help-seeking behaviours. The findings suggest that people do not take the decision to consult health services lightly and rationalise why their behaviour is not time wasting.
Weak evidence suggests that breast cancer follow-up in primary care is effective. Interventions improving communication between primary and secondary care could lead to greater GP involvement. Discontinuation of formal follow-up may not increase GP workload. However, the quality of the data in general was poor, and no firm conclusions can be reached.
Patients' main concern is recurrent disease, and they find regular follow-up, expertise of specialists, and quick access to tests reassuring. Information regarding the effectiveness of follow-up is not given to patients who also have unmet information needs, which would help them to cope and be more involved. Continuity of care, unhurried consultations, and psychosocial support are important, but sometimes lacking in secondary care. GPs are thought to be unwilling and to have insufficient time and expertise to conduct follow-up.
This group of GP appraisers strongly supported the role of external and independent feedback by trained peers as one approach to strengthening the existing appraisal process.
Urgent action is warranted by findings of late diagnosis, possible discrimination around treatment options, and lack of patient involvement and assessment of capacity in decision making. There are significant gaps in knowledge and training among most health professionals, leading to disengaged services that are unaware of the physical, emotional, and practical needs of people with learning disabilities, and their carers.
On average, one in 10 patients will receive a sickness certificate each year, with the highest rates occurring around 50 years of age, in women. Mental health and musculoskeletal conditions were associated with the highest rates of certification. These results provide important information to underpin the national 'Fit for Work' scheme, by providing targets for intervention and a benchmark against which the impact of public health initiatives to reduce certified sickness absence due to health conditions can be evaluated and monitored.
There is insufficient evidence to implicate any one prenatal factor in autism aetiology, although there is some evidence to suggest that exposure to pregnancy complications may increase the risk.
Evidence on the effects of outcome management in mental healthcare is promising. More targeted research is needed in order to identify the effective ingredients of outcome feedback and to assess its cost-effectiveness.
Our findings show that individuals with broadly defined bipolar schizoaffective features have either a particularly strong genetic contribution or that, as a group, are genetically more homogeneous than the other phenotypes tested. The results point to the importance of using diagnostic approaches that recognise this group of individuals. Our approach can be applied to similar data-sets for other psychiatric and non-psychiatric phenotypes.
The effect of 5-HTTLPR on antidepressant response is SSRI specific conditional on gender and modulated by another polymorphism at the 5' end of the serotonin transporter gene.
The short allele of 5-HTTLPR may moderate the association between morning cortisol and the subsequent onset of a depressive episode.
Personality disorders are relatively common disorders that often co-occur with Axis I disorders and are associated with significant role impairments beyond those due to comorbidity.
Outmigration of children was not associated with greater depression in older parents and, after taking account of a range of possible covariables, was actually associated with less parental depression. This could be explained by pre-existing advantages in families sending more migrants and by the economic benefits of migration.
The rising prevalence of dementia will have an impact on acute hospitals. Extra resources will be required for intermediate and palliative care and mental health liaison services.
Particular impairments are common to people with psychosis and may prove useful as endophenotypic markers. Considering the degree of individuals' global cognitive impairment is critical when attempting to understand patterns of selective impairment both within and between these diagnostic groups.
Online, unsupported CCBT did not outperform usual care, and the combination of both did not have additional effects. Decrease in depressive symptoms in people with moderate to severe depression was moderate in all three interventions. Online CCBT without support is not beneficial for all individuals with depression.
In school-aged children (6 to 12 years) with ADHD, efficacy of LDX was maintained from the first time point (1.5 hours) up to the last time point assessed (13.0 hours). LDX was generally well tolerated, resulting in typical stimulant AEs.
JHD-containing serum inhibited the LPS-induced cytokines expression in RAW264.7 which was probably associated with its inhibitory effect on the mRNA expression of LPS receptors TLR and CD14.
BSS is one of the most common CM syndromes among patients with the primary glomerular diseases; the BSS score has a positive correlation with Upro, CHO, TG, eGFR, as well as the index of chronic renal pathology. Based on these observations, the BSS may be used as an indicator of the development of renal diseases. Being positively diagnosed as BSS could indicate the beginning of the chronic phase of the primary glomerular diseases.
The combined herbal supplement of Rhodiola and Gingko could improve the endurance performance by increasing oxygen consumption and protecting against fatigue.
Applying DB1 to NSCLC patients at an early post-operational stage could alleviate the impairment and accelerate the recovery of immune function of patients to enhance their immunity. DB1 also shows an anti-tumor action to a certain degree.
Both medicines had high cure rates, low recrudescence rates, and no serious adverse reactions. The administration of Artequick, however, was more convenient and lower incidence of gastrointestinal side effects than that of Artekin, so as to increase the efficacy in the malaria population.
The combined treatment of Chinese drugs with chemotherapy has a predominant effect in de novo AML. Secondary or refractory AML, expression of CD34 and CD56, and unfavorable cytogenetics were the main factors of poor prognosis in AML.
YCHD showed significant effects on preventing liver injury progression induced by CCl(4), and the closest or most suitable animal model for damp-heat jaundice syndrome may be the one induced by CCl(4).
The anti-inflammatory mechanisms of TGA for inhibiting the production of NO and PGE(2)are through inhibiting COX-2 mRNA expression without TNF-alpha changes.
TXYF is an effective preparation for the treatment of D-IBS. It can quickly lessen abdominal pain and distention, improve the property of stool, and improve mental tension and depression in patients. Its mechanism of action might be through the adjustment of MCs activation to decrease visceral hypersensitivity.
The IHDA types of UC are closely related with T-cell subsets. The difference of T-cell subsets in various IHDA types of UC patients has provided a theoretical basis for syndrome differentiation in the CM typing of UC.
Age at diagnosis, preoperative KPS score, KPS score change at 2 weeks postoperation, involvement of brain lobe, involvement of eloquent cortex or deep structure, Ki-67 expression level and adjuvant chemotherapy correlate significantly with the prognosis of patients with GBM.
Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapeutic agents may be an effective strategy for patients with recurrent malignant glioma. Activated MAPK and AKT might be possible biomarkers for selecting suitable patients for this targeted therapy.
The GSCs display strong capability of tumor's resistance to TMZ. This resistance is probably contributed by the CD133(+) cells with down-regulation of autophagy-related proteins. Future treatment should target this small population of cancer stem cells in tumors to improve survival of patients.
Thalidomide enhances the cytotoxicity of temozolomide by promoting the autophagy induced by temozolomide. Contributing to the up-regulation of PTEN by thalidomide, the expression of autophagy associated protein-MAP1LC3 and Beclin1 was enhanced, which leads to a reinforced autophagy in the combined treatment of temozolomide and thalidomide in vitro.
(19)F-MRS studies indicated that C6-CD::UPRT cells could effectively express CD and UPRT enzymes. The CD::UPRT/5-FC system showed an obvious bystander effect. This study demonstrated that CD::UPRT/5-FC gene therapy is suitable for 5-FC to F-Nuctd metabolism; and (19)F-MRS can monitor transferred CD::UPRT gene expression and catalysis of substrates noninvasively, dynamically and quantitatively.
APLN SNP rs2235306 was associated with fasting plasma glucose levels in males. It suggests that APLN genetic variants may contribute to clinical features related to glucose metabolism in Chinese population.
Gains on chromosomes 2p, 12q, 6p, 9q, 10q, 1p, 2q, 6q, 8q, 15q and 18q and losses on chromosomes 3p, 11p and 6p may be related to rhabdomyosarcomal carcinogenesis. Furthermore, gains on chromosome 12q may be correlated with translocation and gains on chromosome 9q with the early stages of rhabdomyosarcoma.
The predominant MRSA clone at Beijing Chaoyang Hospital from 2006 to 2007 had the type III SCCmec element. All of the MRSA isolates were multiresistant to antimicrobial agents. Emergence of coexistence of MRSA and VRE in the same patient was not rare. Physicians should pay more attention to infections resulting from MRSA and VRE. Aggressive infection control measures should be taken to prevent the transmission of the multidrug resistance organism.
The data suggest that HBoV has been circulating in Beijing population for at least over 10 years, and most of children had been exposed to HBoV by age of 7 years. Higher HBoV antibody positive rate shown in the serum specimens collected in 2005 suggested that infections by HBoV have been increased in Beijing population in recent years.
LR is capable of affecting the diagnostic performances of chemical shift imaging. Thus, when applying these tests to make diagnoses on vertebral fractures, the severity of the vertebral damage should be taken into account. The covariate-specific ROC model is recommended because it substantially improves the ability to avoid bias when evaluating tests.
Invasive features of ER(-) breast cancer cells can be characterized in vitro by an invasive Matrigel assay, as the induction of tubule formation by ECV-304 endothelial cells, higher secretion of hyaluronidase, and higher expression of proteinases MMP-9, cath-D, and the angiogenesis promoting factor VEGF.
Haemophilus influenzae is capable of forming biofilm in vitro. Sufficient dosage might control early formation of biofilms. Ciprofloxacin exerts better effects on breakdown of biofilm than azithromycin at conventional concentration in clinics.
The mean SUV of the lung tissue may be a useful predictor for the acute RP. FDG-PET/CT may play a new role in the study of the radiation damage of the lung.
Our results suggest that photodynamically guided surgery and photodynamic therapy significantly reduce or delay local recurrence, increase the effectiveness of radical resection and prolong the survival time of tumour bearing rabbits. Their combination has the potential to be used as a rapid and highly effective treatment of metastatic brain tumours.
Our results suggest that 3-AB inhibits degradation of PARP, increases the expression of PARP protein, and suppresses the expression of AIF protein. Inhibition of PARP activity may protect cardiocytes in rats with AMI and reduce apoptosis.
Wild-type RASSF1A inhibits cell growth and enhances cell chemosensitivity to mitomycin in hepatocellular carcinoma, suggesting that RASSF1A may serve as a new target for gene therapy in hepatocellular carcinoma patients.
5-HTTLPR polymorphism may be associated with susceptibility to cigarette smoking in Chinese males. The proportion of the L/L and S/L genotype in smokers was higher than that in non-smokers. In smokers, the level of nicotine dependence and resultant cigarettes consumption may be much higher in individuals with an L/L or S/L genotype than those with the S/S genotype.
The NADPH oxidase subunit p22phox gene polymorphism may be associated with susceptibility to OSAHS, and it may be an important candidate gene for OSAHS.
OSA and CSA remain common in patients with HF on optimal contemporary therapy. Patients with both HF and SRBD have no significant subjective daytime sleepiness compared with patients without SRBD, despite of significantly increased awake number, arousal and decreased proportion of deep sleep stages. It is not a credible way and means to exclude SRBD in patients with HF according to the absence of subjective daytime sleepiness.
The results suggest that oridonin can lower pulmonary artery pressure effectively, and inhibit pulmonary artery structural remodeling by inducing smooth cell apoptosis via a mitochondria-dependent pathway.
Melatonin reduces acute lung injury in endotoxemic rats by attenuating pulmonary inflammation and inhibiting NF-kappaB activation.
These results indicate a new drug resisting, mechanism in the tumor cells. High expression of APAO can greatly decrease the sensitivity of tumor cells to the specific polyamine analogues by detoxifying those analogues and prevent analogue induced apoptosis.
Due to potent immunosuppressive agents, acute rejection following an orthotopic liver transplantation lacks typical clinical manifestations and pathological features. Acute rejection is best diagnosed by liver biopsy. Designing rational individualized immunosuppressive regimen based on clinical and pathological features of acute rejection plays an important role in prolonging long term survival of patients.
LADG for advanced gastric cancer is feasible, safe, and minimally invasive.
The plasma apoAV concentration is increased and positively correlates with TG and CRP in ACS patients.
Low dose HHT alone showed considerable short term and long term efficacy in the treatment of late stage CML. It may also be a good choice for patients who have failed imatinib, IFN-alpha treatment or haematopoietic stem cell transplantation or cannot afford these treatments.
Patients with ISI in the gray matter alone on T2-weighted MR images did not have significantly different surgical outcomes compared with those without ISI. Patients with ISI in both gray and white matter had surgical outcomes that were worse than those without ISI.
Intramyocardial injection of rAAV1-SERCA2a can improve the cardiac function in beagles induced with HF. We expect further studies on SERCA2a's long-term safety, efficacy, dosage and the optimization before using it in humans with HF.
Low molecular weight heparin can be prepared into microcapsules with their particle size in nanometric grade. The antithrombotic properties are kept in the nickel and titanium alloy occluder successfully coated with sodium hyaluronate. The endothelialization after the interventional occlusion in the coated group is obvious, indicating that low molecular weight heparin is helpful to the growth of endothelial cells in the occlude and the healing after the interventional occlusion.
Our study suggests that curcumin has a potential antiepileptogenic effect on kindling-induced epileptogenesis.
Remifentanil reduced the [Ca(2+)](i) and suppressed the transients induced by electrical stimulation and caffeine in rat ventricular myocytes.
Short term administration of simvastatin can improve the elasticity of femoral artery but not abdominal aorta.
Oxymatrine is effective in reducing the production and deposition of collagen in the liver tissue of experimental rats in ways which relate to modulating the fibrogenic signal transduction via p38 MAPK signalling pathway.
HBV and HBs affect the proliferation of HSCs; HBV can transiently infect and replicate in cultured HSCs and express HBs and HBc in vitro. Furthermore, HBV can significantly increase the expression of collagen type I mRNA and protein in HSCs.
The results from the questionnaire in the Danish survey showed that the response pattern for the nine scenarios was similar to that obtained in the Swedish survey. There seems to be relative agreement between chiropractors working in different countries and sampled through different methods in relation to their choice of management strategies in patients with low back pain. However, more precise information is needed on the indications for maintenance care and its treatment program, before proceeding to studying its clinical validity.
The dosage regimens of valganciclovir for CMV prophylaxis have been defined using the final population pharmacokinetic model based on WT and CLCR for paediatric renal transplantation patients.
These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that cyclosporin inhibits the biliary secretion and/or hepatic extraction of MPAG, leading to a reduced rate of enterohepatic recirculation of MPA. Several concurrent mechanisms, such as cyclosporin-induced changes in renal tubular MPAG excretion and enhanced elimination of free MPA through competitive albumin binding with MPAG, can also contribute to the altered MPAG pharmacokinetics observed in the presence and absence of cyclosporin.
An enzyme turnover model adequately characterized the experimental data. Based on the predicted enzyme half-life from the final model, the deinduction process should be completed within 2 weeks after carbamazepine therapy is terminated.
So far, data of anticonvulsants in demented patients with behavioral disturbances are not convincing. Controlled clinical trials using specific, valid and psychometrically sound instruments of newer anticonvulsants with a better tolerability profile are mandatory to verify whether they can contribute as treatment option in this indication.
LLRs should deserve a detailed diagnostic work-up, just as for systemic reactions. The prescription of autoinjectable adrenaline would seem advisable. Specific research on the predictive role of LLR for systemic reactions is needed, as well as studies assessing the benefits of treating all patients with LLR with immunotherapy.
A broad spectrum of drugs is associated with AGEP, a T cell-mediated reaction. Genetic susceptibility and the possible role of other risk factors in AGEP should be further evaluated in larger studies of AGEP patients with a validated diagnosis.
FPIES is a non-IgE-mediated gastrointestinal food hypersensitivity disorder. Food protein-activated intestinal lymphocytes elaborate inflammatory cytokines that result in increased intestinal permeability, malabsorption, dysmotility, emesis, diarrhea, pain, and failure to thrive. Decreased intestinal transforming growth factor beta and increased TNFalpha may be important in FPIES. Cow's milk and soy are the most common causes of FPIES, but cereal grains (rice, oat, and barley), fish, poultry, and vegetables may also cause FPIES. The majority of FPIES resolve by age of 3 years.
Nonimmediate allergic drug reactions are mediated by T cells and mostly affect the skin. Nonimmediate allergic drug reactions comprise several diseases ranging from the frequent and benign maculo-papular exanthema to the severe and rare toxic epidermal necrolysis. Progress in the knowledge of the pathophysiology of nonimmediate allergic drug reactions comes from a better understanding of the mechanisms of drug recognition by T cells and from a careful analysis of the phenotype and functions of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells infiltrating the skin lesions. Recent studies have confirmed that the different clinical forms of nonimmediate allergic drug reactions are associated with distinct types of T cell-mediated skin inflammation. However, CD8+ T cells appear as major effector T cells in most of the nonimmediate allergic drug reactions. Future studies to analyze the early cellular and molecular events leading to the development of the allergic skin reaction will be helpful in order to define diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
The particular anaphylactic risk of patients with mastocytosis results from a variety of mechanisms. However, their individual contribution still needs further clarification.
Intraepidermal CD8+T cells may represent double-edged swords of the skin immune system with protective and destructive capacity.
Future clinical trials for food allergy immunotherapy will benefit from approaches, which target the oral tolerance pathways currently being elucidated.
Performing DBPCFC poses a number of practical problems and has several pitfalls, which make its routine use in normal clinical settings generally impossible. This review article shows that the need for this procedure in adult patients seems in effect very little and specifies new, more limited indications to its use in everyday practice. Further, it suggests a role for the open challenge, which lacks several of the disadvantages of DBPCFC.
BAT sensitivity in beta-lactam allergy was 50%, and specificity ranged from 89 to 97%. There are several studies to validate the BAT in allergy to muscle relaxants showing a sensitivity ranging from 54 to 64% with a specificity of 100 and 93%. The sensitivity of a test for evaluating immediate allergic reactions to drugs may decrease over time. To date, the BAT is the only in-vitro diagnostic method that has been validated for the diagnosis of both IgE-mediated and hypersensitivity reactions to NSAIDs. With respect to other drugs, they are nonetheless interesting as they include the evaluation of allergy to drugs that cannot be studied by other in-vitro techniques. All these data suggest that although a full validation of the test is required, BAT is a potential diagnostic method for evaluating immediate allergic reactions to drugs and NSAID hypersensitivity reactions.
Increased knowledge of the epidemiology of anaphylaxis has provided insights into the characteristics of those patient groups most at risk of adverse outcomes. However, these characteristics have poor specificity and limited applicability for detection of at-risk individuals in the clinical setting. Further research is required to facilitate more accurate assessment of an individual's risk for anaphylaxis or fatal outcome. This would represent a major advance in clinical management and enable better allocation of existing healthcare resources.
Ladybug skin testing should be routine in endemic areas. Avoidance continues to be the first step in treatment. Allergen vaccine therapy may be effective, but a commercial extract of H. axyridis is needed.
The BAT may be used as an additional test to confirm the diagnosis of stinging insect allergy in selected patients, provided that it is performed by an experienced laboratory using a validated assay. Test results have to be interpreted by clinicians familiar with the methodological aspects. The utility of the BAT to confirm allergy diagnosis and to predict the risk of subsequent systemic reactions may be improved by combined analysis of multiple surface markers and intracellular signaling pathways.
The skin is a major target organ for allergic drug reactions that may be explained by its different barrier functions including immune system and the armamentarium of xenobiotica-metabolizing enzymes.
Selective immediate reactions to NSAIDs must be considered when a patient develops urticaria or anaphylaxis after intake of one drug with good tolerance to drugs from other groups or even a drug from the same group with a slightly different chemical structure. Further research is required to identify the antigenic determinant structures recognized.
IgE epitope mapping has the potential to become an additional tool for the diagnosis/prognosis of food allergy and lead to a better understanding of the pathogenesis and tolerance induction of food allergy.
Several evaluations of pre, peri and postoperative strategies for the prevention of SSI have been published in 2008, some of which have raised some fundamental questions.
Effective prevention of the transmission of pathogens within the healthcare system requires a multifaceted approach. Existing guidelines should be used to create institutional policies specific to individual patient populations, problem pathogens and the ability to practically implement various infection control procedures. Despite ongoing study, the use of active surveillance to prevent transmission of MRSA continues to be a complex, controversial and challenging issue.
Available evidence, although not always of high quality, suggests that a link between antibiotics usage at individual and institutional levels and resistant bacteria does exist. Benchmark guidelines for empiric therapy in hospitalized patients, taking into consideration not only patients' needs but also ecological costs of resistance, should be rapidly developed.
The consumerization of healthcare requires a response from healthcare providers to engage with the public on how, when and what risk-adjusted surveillance data to release. Information campaigns are required to ensure the public understand any publicly released data and its limitations.
Non-HIV immunocompromised hosts develop immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome when the sudden change in the dominant T helper responses to inflammation is not well balanced by anti-inflammatory responses. Judicious manipulation of host immunity and timely recognition of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome as we deal with the infections in these populations is critical to limit or avoid the harm by immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
TNF blockers have transformed treatment of several chronic inflammatory conditions. Further research is needed to determine how best to prevent and manage their infectious complications and to determine their potential adjunctive therapeutic role in chronic infection diseases.
Evidence-driven management of invasive mould infections in HSCT recipients is becoming increasingly individualized, integrating host factors and pharmacologic and epidemiologic considerations. However, the optimal approach to invasive mould infection prevention in HSCT recipients remains to be resolved by prospective clinical studies.
With the validation of preemptive strategies in clinical trials, we will likely have evidence-based targeted use of antifungals. PCR-based techniques are also promising tools for preemptive strategies and are undergoing evaluation. Knowledge of host genetic factors may be important in stratifying the risk for fungal disease during periods of high risk.
Care bundles can be a powerful driver for improving the reliability of delivery of evidence-based care and patient outcomes. It remains to be seen whether the success that has been achieved in acute admissions and ICUs can be reproduced in general wards.
There is still no consensus as to the best microbiological diagnostic method for VAP, although an early, rapid, and accurate diagnosis should be pursued. Most recent improvements include the direct antibiogram using E-test strips. There is much clinical assessment work pending before biomarkers and molecular techniques become routine practice. The best treatment strategy consists of immediate antimicrobial treatment deescalated later according to clinical progress and culture results. Emphasis is placed on the need for timely short treatment courses to avoid the emergence of resistance.
MIOP is associated in vitro with a failure of MSC to differentiate into an adipogenic lineage, suggesting a BM microenvironment defect. The defect may contribute to osteoclast dysfunction, or may be attributed to the effect of the osteopetrotic marrow environment. Further investigations should determine the pathophysiologic importance of this novel defect, and could perhaps contribute to consideration of MSC therapy in MIOP.
The washouts of discarded bags and filters left over at the end of routine BM explants filtration are a very abundant source of hMSC precursors that can be easily utilized for clinical applications.
These results suggest that MNC from younger and older non-cancer patients are similar, but the data must be interpreted with caution given the small sample size and limited general understanding of MNC mechanisms of action on target cells. It is still possible that cells from older patients may produce fewer cytokines or be functionally impaired.
The results of the present study indicate that nicotine delays the onset of EPC senescence, which might be related to activation of telomerase through the PI3K/Akt pathway. In addition, the effects of nicotine might be specifically mediated by nAchR activation.
After a failed PBPC collection, BM harvest is a reliable option for obtaining an adequate combined autograft. Combined BM-PBPC autografts with &lt;2.0x10(6) CD34+/kg can produce satisfactory engraftment.
This study indicates that use of CryoStor for cryopreservation can yield significantly improved recovery and in vitro functionality of stem/progenitor cells in PBSC products. In addition, it is important to note that these improved recoveries were obtained while not introducing any extra serum or serum-derived proteins, and reducing the final concentration/volume of DMSO by half. Further in vitro and in vivo studies are clearly necessary; however, these findings imply use of CryoStor for cryopreservation could result in improved engraftment for those patients with a lower content of CD34(+) cells in their PBSC collections, along with reducing the requirement for additional apheresis collections and decreasing the risk of adverse infusion reactions associated with higher exposure to DMSO.
Our results indicate that PrepaCyte-EQ medium is superior to Ficoll-Paque PREMIUM density medium for the isolation of putative equine CB MSC and that MSC-qualified FBS may improve the isolation efficiency.
Our results indicate that UC MSC are able to differentiate into functional hepatocyte-like cells that still retain their low immunogenicity in vitro. More importantly, DHC incorporated into the parenchyma of liver when transplanted into mice with CCl(4)-induced liver injury. Therefore, DHC may be an ideal source for cell therapy of liver diseases.
Our findings suggest that BM-derived MSC from different strains share similar characteristics, in contrast to the variations previously described in the characterization of mice MSC from different strains.
Allogeneic placental-derived ASC may provide an off-the-shelf supply of therapeutic cells that would need no histocompatible tissue matching and be potentially less expensive and considerably more convenient than BM or adipose-derived MSC.
The VEGF-A/B-VEGFR-1/2-Erk1/2 signal pathway took major responsibility for the anti-apoptotic effects of EPC on PMVEC, and VEGF-A-VEGFR-2-Akt for pro-proliferating effects. Growth factors, secreted in a paracrine manner by transplanted EPC, inhibited cell apoptosis in PAH lung.
The possibility of stimulating the production of FST, a key regulator of mesodermal differentiation, in adult stem cells, while avoiding the drawbacks of conditioned media, dangerous drugs and gene delivery, has relevant potential therapeutic clinical applications. Additionally, this simple differentiation system could be useful for elucidating the molecular mechanisms driving the stem cell-differentiation process.
This unique and first case herein presented with synchronous primary carcinoid tumor and primary adenocarcinoma arising within mature cystic teratoma of horseshoe kidney emphasizes the need for thorough sectioning and entire submission for histologic evaluation of mature cystic teratomas, in order to avoid missing multiple additional histogenetically distinct neoplasms.
Adenoid cystic carcinomas positive for p-AKT show a higher relapse risk. However, other parameters of glucose metabolism investigated here or proliferation (Ki67) were not predictive in this entity. Our findings demonstrate a possible background for therapeutic approaches targeting the inhibition of PI3K/AKT pathway.
The prostatitis syndrome is a complex condition with a tendency toward chronification. It is important, therefore, that the patient be fully informed about the diagnostic uncertainties and the possibility that treatment may meet with less than complete success.
This article is intended to give the reader guidance in evaluating the design of studies in medical research. This should enable the reader to categorize medical studies better and to assess their scientific quality more accurately.
The EAU, in its new guidelines for renal cell carcinoma, recommends partial renal resection as the standard treatment for tumors less than 4 cm in size that are wholly contained within one kidney when the other kidney is healthy. This practice yields comparable outcomes to those of nephrectomy, with tumor-specific five-year survival rates exceeding 90%. In major urological centers, partial resection is favored even for tumors larger than 4 cm, as long as they are in a favorable location. Nonetheless, the estimated rate of nephrectomy for tumors less than 4 cm in size currently remains very high in Germany, as it does in American studies, even though the organ-preserving resection of such small tumors usually results in cure.
A cure is still not possible, yet the opportunities for diagnosis and treatment have improved significantly. Early diagnosis is important so that patients can be referred onward for further diagnostic evaluation and appropriate treatment without delay.
Epilepsy is often more difficult to recognize in old age. The treatment is hampered by side effects and drug interactions. Thus, certainty about the diagnosis is indispensable, and the treatment often requires the use of newer-generation antiepileptic drugs.
In the early phase post transplantation, aftercare involves inpatient treatment and outpatient or inpatient rehabilitation with the aim of complete social and professional reintegration. Early diagnosis and treatment of typical general complications such as post-transplant diabetes, hyperlipidemia, arterial hypertension, osteoporosis, and kidney failure is essential. Early detection and treatment of malignant disease and opportunistic infections in patients with long-term immunosuppression is desirable. Moreover, organ-specific factors have to be taken into account. In the event of transplant dysfunction, recurrence of the underlying disease in the transplant, chronic or acute rejection, and organ-specific infections and drug toxicity have to be considered.
GO causes a considerable worsening of QoL. The stage of clinical development and activity of GO find no reflection in QoL. Effectiveness of treatment for GO cannot be evaluated on the basis of changes in QoL.
The obtained data show that adiponectin inhibits endothelial cell growth and may participate in angiogenesis regulation as an endogenous antiangiogenic factor.
These data show that IL-6 174G_C polymorphism is not associated with features describing metabolic syndrome in nonobese healthy subjects.
1. Both NTS and CNT groups are characterized by an abnormal calcium and phosphate metabolism and exaggerated response of PTH secretion to an oral phosphate load as compared with GK controls. 2. Probably hypertension and not NIDDM seems to be the leading cause of calcium-phosphate abnormalities in hypertensive diabetic patients.
The diagnosis of pheochromocytma is usually made after long duration of the disease. The study confirms that clinical presentation of pheochromocytoma is variable and nonspecific, this finding makes the diagnosis very difficult. The most typical symptom is paroxysmal hypertension, which is present only in 40%, other symptoms are nonspecific. The measurement of 24-hour urinary metanephrines was the best indicator. CT was almost always successful in localizing the tumor. Patients with pheochromocytoma should be consider for other endocrine diseases especially medullary carcinoma, primary hyperparathyroidism and other component of MEN 2A.
The increased EC-SOD plasma activity may reflect disturbances of oxidative state in subclinical hyperthyroidism. Parallel increase of MDA plasma concentration may indicate enhancement of lipid peroxidationin in patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism.
The use of signs was effective in changing behavior during the period of sign use, but this effectiveness was limited by gender, age, and the physical ability (e.g., muscle strength) and energy required to climb the stairs. The possible synergistic effects of publicity were inconclusive but are worthy of further investigation.
There are serious problems relating to dampness in Japanese public housing, which affects the health of residents. There is a need to educate the residents about the relationship between dampness and SBS, and building problems should be rectified.
Mismatches between the dimensions of school furniture and body dimensions might be the reason for the occurrence of discomfort/problems in various parts of school children's bodies. It can be concluded that an ergonomic intervention is required to redesign the classroom furniture for school children of different age groups in order to reduce furniture-related health complaints.
Young females with low forearm BMD had low body weight and BMI. Thinness was shown to be a risk factor for low BMD, in accordance with results reported elsewhere. A gain in body weight may have the effect of increasing BMD, but our results suggest that to increase BMD, the gain in body weight must include increases in LTM, and not FM alone.
SRXRF is useful a method for reconstructing human exposures in very long trends.
The elderly were more susceptible than young children to oxidative stress as a result of ambient exposure to PM(2.5). Identification of oxidative stress induced by PM(2.5) explains the mechanism of adverse health effects such as cardiovascular or respiratory diseases, particularly in the elderly.
Based on our results, fetal growth may be influenced by maternal total exposure to dioxins, but only exposure to 2,3,7,8-TCDD would appear to possibly affect fetal head size during pregnancy.
Appropriate air ventilation in facilities such as Internet cafs is needed as part of a TB-control program in metropolitan areas.
The results of this study indicated that several factors of the child-care environment, for example the daytime caring person, are related with caries development. Scientific elucidation of the risk factors that give rise to high prevalence of caries in specific regions and access to the whole picture of the disease mechanism may have great potential to lead to the development of effective countermeasures and to contribute to the reduction of dental caries in preschool children.
Our new scoring sheet can reliably and comprehensively assess present ADL status. The assessed ADL could predict the future risk of adverse conditions related to falls.
The finding of this study suggests that the posture of the study subjects changed to the squat lifting method, which is preferable for reducing the physical load to the lower back, as a result of the educational intervention.
Although there has been a change in family structure and living arrangements, the majority of Chinese elderly still rely on traditional forms of family support, especially after acquiring dependency status. As the elderly have different functional levels, healthcare policies in China should consider the need for both community and family support systems.
The prevalence of NAFLD in children and adolescents is closely related to metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance, and WC.
The large difference between the estimated prevalence of ADHD symptoms in Japanese preschool children from teacher and parent surveys suggests that compared to teachers, parents consider their children's symptoms much more serious. Thus, parental evaluation of ADHD symptoms using DSM criteria may be inappropriate for ADHD screening.
Our results provide evidence that good lifestyles are effective in the recovery from multiple risk factors. Effects of lifestyle on recovery from multiple risk factors are different from effects on the recovery from a single risk factor, with the difference depending on the initial number of risk factors.
The frequency of tomato consumption was confirmed to strongly predict the urinary pyrethroid metabolite levels in the general population-presumably because tomatoes are most often consumed raw and unpeeled (more so than all other vegetables and fruits analyzed in the current study). However, it should be noted that the 3-PBA levels, even among those subjects with the highest consumption of tomatoes, were far below the levels of toxicological significance, although the health consequences from long-term low-level exposure to pyrethroid requires further exploration.
Higher ICCs indicated that phthalate metabolite levels in single spot urine could reflect longer-term exposure to the corresponding diesters of subjects. Although the current exposure level was less than TDIs, further studies and exposure monitoring are needed to reveal the toxicity of phthalate esters to sensitive subpopulation.
The effectiveness of the derived model suggests that both physical and psychological functions should be considered for gait prediction.
The results to this study demonstrate that daily PA was high among female subjects living in a NE with land use mix-diversity, and who had an awareness of places to walk to and the accessibility to facilities for daily necessities in their neighborhood. For male subjects, daily PA was high among those who perceived the aesthetics of and accessibility to facilities for pleasure in their neighborhood. Further research is needed to determine the association between PA and NE on the basis of sex differences.
Sediment texture was uniform in the cores from both reservoirs. Laminated sediment structure, without any obvious discontinuities, was observed. Hg concentrations in the sediment core from the Valcea Reservoir were low and constant (0.01-0.08 mg/kg). In Babeni Reservoir sediments, Hg concentrations were very high in the deeper core section (up to 45 mg/kg in the longest core) and decreased to lower concentrations toward the top of the cores (1.3-2.4 mg/kg). This decrease probably reflects technological progress in control of emissions from the Hg-cell-based chlor-alkali industry. Two strong peaks could be distinguished in older sediments. The mean rate of sedimentation (5.9 cm/year) was calculated from the depth of the (137)Cs Chernobyl peak. This was in good agreement with the sedimentation rate estimated at this site from a bathymetric study. Assuming a constant sedimentation rate, the two Hg peaks would reflect two contamination events in 1987 and 1991, respectively. However, it is also possible that the two peaks belong to the same contamination event in 1987 but were separated by a sediment layer richer in sand and silt. This layer had a low Hg concentration, which can be interpreted as a mass deposition event related to a major flood bringing Hg-free sediments.
Whilst the chlor-alkali plant partly switched to a cleaner technology in 1999, no obvious decrease of Hg concentrations was observed in recent decade. Results from the sediment core reflected the historical trend of Hg release from the chlor-alkali plant, revealed important contamination episodes and confirmed a legacy of contamination of Hg in recent sediments even if the concentrations of Hg decreased toward the surface due to a more efficient emission control.
Although the Hg concentrations in Babeni Reservoir sediments were extremely high in the late eighties and they remain one order of magnitude higher in the surface sediments than in sediments from the upstream reservoir, little is known about the transfer of Hg to the biota and human population. Our initial measurements indicate the presence of monomethyl-Hg (MMHg) in pore water, but further studies are necessary to evaluate fluxes of MMHg at the sediment-water interface. Samples of fish and hair from various groups of the local population were recently collected to evaluate the potential hazard of Hg contamination to human health in the Rm Valcea region.
The concentrations in the Somes River varied from below 10 ng/L up to 10 microg/L. A substantial decrease of the exposure in the Somes River could be observed due to the upgrade of the municipal WWTP in Cluj-Napoca. The loads in the river stretch between Cluj-Napoca and Dej (Somes Mic) varied strongly: caffeine (400-2,000 g/day), carbamazepine (78-213 g/day), galaxolide (140-684 g/day), ibuprofen (84-108 g/day). After the upgrade of the WWTP Cluj-Napoca, the concentrations in the Somes of caffeine, pentoxifylline, cyclophosphamide, galaxolide, and tonalide were significantly reduced (over 75%). One might be cautious comparing both studies because the relative efficiency of the WWTP's removal of PPCP was not evaluated. However, the significantly lower concentrations of most compounds after the upgrade of the WWTP Cluj-Napoca allow one to infer that the technical measures at the source substantially reduced inputs of contaminants to the receiving river. Dej loads of the poorly biodegradable substance carbamazepine increased by a factor of 2-3 as a result of wastewater discharges into the river. The disproportionate increase in caffeine loads by a factor of 4 below Cluj-Napoca indicates inputs of untreated wastewater from the Somes Mare due to the discharge of untreated wastewater derived from Bistrita, Nasaud, and Beclean (115,000 inhabitants).
The relative contribution of treated and untreated wastewater in surface water might be assessed by measuring chemical markers. Recalcitrant pharmaceuticals like carbamazepine are suitable as chemical markers for estimating the relative contribution of wastewater in surface water. The easily degradable caffeine might be a good indicator for raw sewage and hardly treated wastewaters.
Municipal WWTPs have the potential of a significant contribution in reducing the load of contaminants to ambient waters. The efficiency of the wastewater treatment in Cluj-Napoca improved considerably after the upgrade of the WWTP. Therefore, it is crucial that several WWTPs must be implemented or improved in the Somes Valley Watershed in order to reduce the discharge of contaminants in the Somes River from these point sources.
The applied methodology is fairly classical and did not come up with revolutionary results. Actually, the interesting aspects of this work are, on the one hand, and obviously, the fact that it produced tools matching the needs of the local (if not national) water administration (i.e. with a good chance of being effectively used in the day-to-day practice), and, on the other hand, the adaptations and adjustments that were needed both at the staff level and in technical terms.
This research showed that a GIS-based water management system needs to be backed by some basic data management tools that form the necessary support upon which a GIS can be deployed. The main lesson gained is that technology transfer has to pay much attention to the differences in existing situations and backgrounds in general, and therefore must be able to show much flexibility. The fact that the original objectives could be adapted to meet the real needs of the local end-users is considered as a major aspect in achieving a successful adaptation and development of water resources management tools. Time needed to setup things in real life was probably the most underestimated aspect in this technology transfer process.
The whole material produced (conceptual data model, database and GIS tools) was disseminated among all river basin authorities in Romania on the behalf of the national water administration (ANAR). The fact that further developments, for example, to address water quantity issues more precisely, as envisaged by ANAR, can be seen as an indication that this project succeeded in providing an appropriate input to improve water quality in Romania on the long term.
The heavy metal concentrations in soil were increased in the study area, mostly under legal action limits in low-concern areas (e.g., 1,000 mg Pb/kg dry soil), but often above action limits for high-concern areas (100 mg Pb/kg dry soil) such as populated areas. The soluble lead concentrations in water samples indicate a need for monitoring and assessing water quality in more detail. The results for atmospheric deposition showed increased dust precipitation and heavy metal loads in the study area compared to Bucharest. However, based on mass flow balance calculations, the actual atmospheric deposition of heavy metals must be much lower than it was in the past decades.
It was shown that highest lead values in water, soil and atmospheric deposition are rather to be found near the investigated industrial site than at the control sites in Bucharest. Our results correspond very well with results that show that children from Pantelimon have significantly increased lead concentrations in their blood compared to children in Bucharest. The increased lead contamination around the investigated industrial area is likely to have caused the increased exposure for children living in Pantelimon.
In high-concern areas, such as found in populated areas, further measures have to be taken to avoid health risks for people living in these areas. The measures already taken to reduce emissions from the industrial site will help to avoid further increases in heavy metal concentrations. In areas with exceeded action limits, measures have to be taken as required by law. Detailed risk assessments could help to take necessary actions to protect public health in this area. The public should be informed about the potential hazards of eating plants grown in that area. Educational programs for schools, informing children about the contamination, should lead to a better understanding of environmental problems and a more sustainable behavior in the future.
The inputs of acid mine waters drastically increased filtered heavy metal concentrations in the Certej River, e.g. Zn up to 130 mg L(-1), Fe 100 mg L(-1), Cu 2.9 mg L(-1), Cd 1.4 mg L(-1) as well as those of SO(4) up to 2.2 g L(-1). In addition, river water became acidic with pH values of pH 3. Concentrations of pollutant decreased slightly downstream due to dilution by waters from tributaries. Metal concentrations measured at headwater stations reflect background values. They fell in the range of the environmental quality standards proposed in the EU Water Framework Directive for dissolved heavy metals. The outflow of the large tailing impoundment and the groundwater downstream from two tailings dams exhibited the first sign of AMD, but they still had alkalinity. Most dug wells analysed delivered a drinking water that exhibited no sign of AMD pollution, although these wells were a distance of 7 to 25 m from the contaminated river. It seems that the Certej River does not infiltrate significantly into the groundwater. Pyrite was identified as the main sulphide mineral in the tailings dam that produces acidity and with calcite representing the AMD-neutralising mineral. The acid-base accounting proved that the potential acid-neutralising capacity in the solid phases would not be sufficient to prevent the production of acidic water in the future. Therefore, the open pits and mine waste deposits have to be seen as the sources for AMD at the present time, with a high long-term potential to produce even more AMD in the future. The socioeconomic study showed that mining provided the major source of income. Over 45% of the households were partly or completely reliant on financial compensations as a result of mine closure. Unemployment was considered by the majority of the interviewed persons as the main cause of social problems in the area. The estimation of the explanatory factors by the logistic regression analysis revealed that education, household income, pollution conditions during the last years and familiarity with environmental problems were the main predictors influencing peoples' opinion concerning whether the main river is strongly polluted. This model enabled one to predict correctly 77% of the observations reported. For the drinking water quality model, three predictors were relevant and they explained 66% of the observations.
Coupling the findings from the natural science and socioeconomic approaches, we may conclude that the impact of mining on the Certej River water is high, while drinking water in wells is not significantly affected. The perceptions of the respondents to pollution were to a large extent consistent with the measured results.
The results of the study can be used by various stakeholders, mainly the mining company and local municipalities, in order to integrate them in their post-mining measures, thereby making them aware of the potential long-term impact of mining on the environment and on human health as well as on the local economy.
This study shows that the current chlorination practice in the investigated plants complies with the THM drinking water standards of the EU. The THM concentrations in all samples taken in the four treatment plants and distributions systems were below the EU drinking water standard for TTHMs of 100 microg/L. Due to the low bromide levels in the raw waters, the main THM formed in the investigated plants is chloroform. It could also be seen that the THM levels were typically lower in water supplies with groundwater as their water resource. In one plant (Dej) with a pre-ozonation step, a significantly lower (50%) THM formation during post-chlorination was observed. Laboratory chlorination experiments revealed a good correlation between chloroform formation and the consumed chlorine dose. Also, these experiments allowed a semi-quantative prediction of the chloroform formation in the distribution system of Cluj-Napoca.
CHCl(3) was the most important trihalomethane species observed after the chlorination of water in all of the sampled months. However, TTHM concentrations did not exceed the maximum permissible value of 100 microg/L (EU). The THM formation rates in the distribution system of Cluj-Napoca have a high seasonal variability. Kinetic laboratory experiments could be used to predict chloroform formation in the Cluj-Napoca distribution system. Furthermore, an empirical model allowed an estimation of the chloroform formation in the Gilau water treatment plant.
Pollutant concentrations reported herein are lower or similar than those reported for the sediments by earlier studies (RIZA 2000; Dragan et al., Int J Environ Anal Chem 86:833-842, 2006). Ratios of individual PAH compounds indicate important pyrolytic inputs and suggest that PAHs in the area are derived from the combustion of fossil fuels. Biologically, the waters appear to be beta-mesosaprobic towards alpha-mesosaprobic according to the saprobic index classification and undergo moderate pollution according to the diatom index classification. Water quality decreases from springs to river mouths. Algal species richness index has a less clear pattern along the river. Water toxicity is low, but certain sources of point pollution require increased attention.
The water quality is better than expected, probably because of the drop in pollution intensity following the collapse of local agricultural and industrial activity following the fall of communism in 1989. Nevertheless, further studies will be needed to confirm and refine our results. While this study draws no strident alarm, it appeals for high attention, particularly because the economic activity in the area is expected to increase.
Future close monitoring will be necessary for insuring compliance with the Water Framework Directive, and for refining standards and understanding of the local situation, but with relevance for the wider international community. On the basis of the situation described in the present study, we recommend that future studies dedicate specific efforts to point pollution and effluent toxicity, particularly around the city of Iasi. For a better understanding of pollution and its effects, we recommend pursuing the type of multidisciplinary investigations proposed by the present study: chemical, ecotoxicological, and ecological. We also recommend that new methods should be developed and/or refined, like the empirical determination of partitioning coefficients in water and soils, process-based toxicity methods in ecotoxicological assessments, searching for interactions between pollution, producers, and consumers in aquatic ecosystems. We also recommend preference for cheaper survey methods, as these will be more applicable locally.
Nevertheless, more work is needed to find out the actual impact of the regulations for single chemicals and complex mixtures, in terms of environmental quality standards to achieve a 'good chemical status', on the good biological status. In a next step after the adoption of the list of PS/PHS substances, which also includes the POPs, the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive (UWWTD) needs to be adjusted and existing or new treatment options (BATs) should comply with the new requirements of the different directives.
Relevant substances threaten human health and the environment by new effects such as CMR, endocrine-disrupting effects or neurotoxicity which are not yet considered in an adequate way by assessment methods and regulatory standards and the application of abatement technologies. The Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals helps to control the sources, but WFD, the Stockholm Convention and UWWTD need to be harmonised and a rolling revision process should react on new developments. Finally, to answer the question if the Stockholm Convention and the WFD (2000/60/EC) could reach the target-I would state that they provide a very valuable frame to approach the targets, but there is still way to go to reach them on an EU level and on a global scale, also under the aspects of the Stockholm Convention and the Millennium Development Goals.
The compilation of the goals of different regulations and combined actions will save a lot of administrative efforts and money.
Since ecotoxicological methods have never been incorporated into risk assessment procedures, mandatory effluent discharge or ambient water monitoring programmes, ecotoxicological research, based on bioaccumulation studies, conventional ecotoxicological tests and, recently, biomarkers of exposure and effect have been restricted to independent small- to medium-scale studies, conducted, basically, to confirm, underline or oppose the results of chemical-based monitoring and to lament on inadequate environmental regulations/policy and management practice. Although hot and unresolved ecotoxicological problems still remain beyond the reach of ecotoxicological research currently conducted in Serbia, or are tackled only sporadically, it is to be expected that on-going research and institutional capacity building should, hopefully, increase the competence and competitiveness of scientific community and speed up the process of harmonisation of national environmental legislation and policy with European Union.
IAD, stretching between basic and applied research, adapted its strategy after the major political changes in 1989. IAD fosters transdisciplinary and transboundary projects to support integrative Danube River protection in line with the governmental International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River (ICPDR) in which IAD has had observer status since 1998. Recent scientific outputs of IAD encompass, amongst others, a water quality map of the Danube and major tributaries, the Sturgeon Action Plan, hydromorphological mapping of the Drava, a macrophyte inventory, and a Mures River study. Further information about IAD can be found on our website http://www.iad.gs.
In the aftermath of this once-per-century accident, the aim was to obtain new knowledge for the environmental sciences and to achieve progress for water pollution control issues. The following themes are discussed: mitigation measures by the chemical industry and by the governmental authorities, activities of environmental protection organizations, chemical and biological monitoring, alert organization, ecological damages, ecotoxicological effects assessment, recovery and alteration of the river biology, return of the salmon, drinking water supplies, research programs, education of environmental scientists, and visions for the future.
The catastrophic pollution of the Rhine in November 1986 has triggered by the openly visible damages of the river biology that subsequently significant progress was made towards the prevention of such environmental catastrophes. The crucial risk reduction measures in the chemical industry, legal regulations and controls as well as chemical and biological monitoring of the river water quality were substantially improved. Politics and chemical industry have learned their lectures and have proceeded accordingly.
A drastic acute contamination, as it has happened at Schweizerhalle in 1986, is clearly recognizable by the toxic effects, which it is causing. This can lead to mitigation activities, which are positive considering a long-term perspective. However, the less obvious effects of chronic water pollution should receive more attention as well as the ongoing alteration of the biocenosis. A high water quality must be demanded for using water from the Rhine to produce drinking water. In that context, micropollutants should also be considered and particular attention should be payed to emerging contaminants.
The big chemical storehouse fire of 1986 had an important impact on the transboundary cooperation and has improved the willingness for international cooperation. The fire catastrophe of Schweizerhalle has triggered many activities in particular for the Rhine River. Overall, the effects are positive on the basis of a long-term perspective. The applied whole basin approach gives an example on a global basis for other river systems, which still are more heavily polluted.
The iodine nutritional status of the Swedish population is adequate. Iodized table salt remains the main dietary source of iodine in Swedish diet. Recommendations to reduce total salt intake in the population urge increased use of iodized salt in the production of processed foods. Pregnant and lactating women with high iodine requirements may still be at risk for low iodine intake. This study will serve as the basis for future monitoring of iodine nutritional status in Sweden.
'Extra' foods contribute excessively to the energy, fat and sugar intakes of Australian adults, while providing relatively few micronutrients. This is of concern for the increasing risk of overweight and chronic disease and poor micronutrient status.
For the first time, we have described SSAT and the SSAT/VAT ratio as important indices in obesity-related disturbances.
Mixed meals of lower GI are associated with lower day-long concentrations of glucose and insulin, and higher CCK after breakfast, morning tea and lunch. This metabolic profile could mediate differences in satiety and hunger seen in some, but not all, studies.
Hemoglobin concentration is inversely related to erythrocyte folate concentrations in a setting where folate fortification was adopted more than a decade ago. The impact of improving vitamin B12 status on this inverse relationship should be examined.
Psyllium could produce dose- and time-dependent serum cholesterol-lowering effect in mild and moderate hypercholesterolemic patients and would be useful as an adjunct to dietary therapy for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia.
C3 seems to be related with selenium status and several anthropometrical and biochemical measurements linked to metabolic syndrome in apparently healthy young adults. These findings suggest a possible role for selenium intake in the modulation of C3, whose assessment may be an early marker of metabolic syndrome manifestations.
Models based on serving sizes and on 100 kcal were preferable for positive subscores and models based on 100 g of food were preferable for negative subscores. RACC-based profiles may represent an attractive option for the US consumer.
Phase angle (assessed by single-frequency BIA) appears to discriminate between different forms of underweight, being an effective marker of qualitative changes in body composition.
Skinfold measurements are the best non-invasive technique in predicting subcutaneous as well as intra-abdominal fat in our population of 6 to 7-year-old children.
Consumption of MLCT may reduce body weight, body fat and blood TG in hypertriglyceridemic subjects under an appropriate dietary regime.
Compared with vitamin A alone, supplementation with zinc and with zinc and multiple micronutrients, reduced diarrhoea morbidity in stunted rural South African children. Efficacy of zinc supplementation in HIV-infected children needs confirmation in studies that represent the spectrum of disease severity and age groups.
According to the authors' results, dysfunctional malocclusive pattern makes it clear that the association between oral breathing and dental malocclusions represents a self-perpetuating vicious circle in which it is difficult to establish if the primary alteration is respiratory or maxillofacial. Regardless, the problem needs to be addressed and solved through the close interaction of the paediatrician, otorhinolaryngologist, allergologist and orthodontist.
The low caries experience and the high prevalence of enamel defects in CF patients could be due to the metabolic disease, and above all to the long-term pharmacological therapies (antibiotics and pancreatic enzymes) that they take.
Approximately one-third of Iranian school children were in need of orthodontic treatment, as determined by the index of orthodontic treatment need.
The difference between the SEM images of deciduous enamel and dentine when using three different energies (150-200-250 mJ) is not significant in order to recommend the use of one type of output energy. In addition, the SEM images are similar TO those of permanent teeth.
The two-step self-etch adhesive system is a reliable alternative to etch and rinse adhesive systems on both ground and intact primary enamel.
Dental development in UCLP and BCLP patients was significantly delayed compared to non cleft reference. Dental development in boys was significantly behind that of girls. A significant difference in the amount of delay between both cleft types was found only in female subjects.
The occurrence of massive cancer invasion into the carotid artery should not be a contraindication for surgery. En bloc resection of the carotid artery with revascularization using the superficial femoral artery allows for appropriate control of the cancer, and carries an acceptable level of neurological risk.
We conclude that immunosenescence could alter arthritis susceptibility in a very complex manner including both adaptive and innate immunities, and it cannot be determined by a single trait. Cumulative alterations in immunoregulatory functions closely resemble human disease, which makes this systemic autoimmune arthritis model of RA even more valuable.
No prognostic value of cyclin A and E expression was found in NSCLC, but significantly higher cyclin A and E expression was found in squamous cell carcinomas than in adenocarcinomas.
The beneficial effects of dietary calcium on body weight and bone health after menopause may be significantly influenced by other dietary components.
Based on these results, methylprototribestin and the mixture of the 3 acetylated isomers can be recommended for further in vivo experiments in combination with anthracyclines in human MDR-cancer xenograft transplanted mice.
Neonatal rats that received a threshold dose of PTX (4 mg/kg) at a critical period (0 days of age) developed cataracts and retinal dysplasia; however, the 2 mg/kg dose at 0 days of age and the 4 or 8 mg/kg dose at 14 days of age or older caused no ocular damage. Thus, the determination of the dose and timing of PTX treatment administered during the early developmental stage requires great care to avoid ocular toxicity.
As in other similar studies, cytoreductive surgery plus HIPEC, even when combined with an aggressive surgical procedure, is associated with an acceptable risk of postoperative complications and mortality. This combined treatment results in DFS and OS rates that are not described in the literature for surgery associated with systemic chemotherapy and, in our opinion, may be considered the gold standard treatment for this rare tumor.
During EBBLA, significant stress-related endocrine events arise. However, no significant sympathetic / cytokine triggering was noted.
An artificial PhV was designed and optimized, and an in vitro methodology was developed for testing the valve. The artificial PhV compared favorably to existing tissue-based PhVs. The in vitro test methods proved to be reliable and reproducible. The PhV design proved the feasibility of an artificial alternative to tissue based PhVs, which in their traditional open-heart implantable form are known to have limited in vivo durability.
Encapsulated hepLL cells may be cultured on a large scale in roller bottles. This makes them possible candidates for use in cell-based liver assist therapies.
These results suggest that alpha-tocopherol and glycyrrhizin may function as preventive agents of HD-associated leukocyte activation though the modulation of platelet-leukocyte interaction.
Our study suggests that psychosocial workplace factors may play a substantial role in modulating patients' health perception and ability to continue working. The causal relationship between Occupational stress, perceived health, and work ability should be further investigated. Occupational Health professionals and nephrologists should closely collaborate to meet the needs of occupationally active hemodialysis patients.
Five patients with post-operative gram-positive suspected infections of prosthetic devices that were unresponsive to a variety of other antibiotics and combinations appeared to respond to compassionate use of daptomycin. its effectiveness is probably due to its activity against biofilmproducing microorganisms. Controlled, double-blind randomized trials are needed to confirm the potential of daptomycin in such patients.
Nurses found taking part in the study demanding in terms of time and commitment; however, the authors conclude that research in the community palliative care setting is feasible.
The facilitated group approach promoted shared learning, problem solving and the opportunity to develop audit skills within a supportive environment. Overall, this approach enabled the participants to gain confidence by engaging in learning within the work setting.
Results show that while 45 min of exercise caused no decrements in sprint performance there were significant reductions in the ability to perform soccer-specific skills. Both the speed (dribbling time) and accuracy (shot performance) with which soccer-specific skills were executed was impaired following exercise replicating one-half of a soccer match.
The results suggest that the SCODS test is a better measure of sport-specific capability than an equivalent nonspecific field test and that it is a valid and reliable tool for talent identification and athlete tracking.
The pacing profiles adopted were similar to the optimal pacing strategies proposed in simulation models of cycling performance. However, in the 3-km and 4-km IP small alterations in pacing strategy appear to be important, at the elite level.
The MSST and WIST can discriminate players of different competition standards. The MSST can be used to estimate a player's aerobic fitness and peak heart rate. The WIST appears to better mimic the intermittent activity pattern of the game, but its application to female players, to assess maximal intermittent endurance swimming performance, requires further evaluation.
These results suggest that a sampling time between 15 s and 45 s may be recommended for the valid assessment of the [Bla] threshold in rowing performance monitoring. This extends the current sampling time of 30 s used by physiologists and coaches for National and club-level Rowers.
The U+D training method was significantly more effective in improving MRS and the kinematic characteristics of sprint running than a traditional horizontal training method.
Results of this study are similar to studies of actual caffeine ingestion. However, the perception of consuming a substance that purportedly enhances performance is sufficient enough to enable individuals to complete a greater number of reps to failure during short-term resistance exercise.
The current data suggests that passive recovery in warm temperatures not only delays cardiovascular and thermal recovery, but may also slow the recovery of MVC and RPE.
The movement patterns of this fast bowler were a combination of highly intermittent activities of variable intensity on the base of approximately 16 km per game. This information provides insight for conditioning coaches to determine the physical demands and to adapt the training and recovery processes of ODI fast bowlers.
The Baermann technique was the most sensitive test for detection of A abstrusus infection. On the basis of the prevalence of 13.8% in this study, A abstrusus infection should be considered in pet cats.
The prognosis was grave for animals with CPA, except for those that had CPA while anesthetized.
Professional sporting events may influence veterinary emergency room caseloads.
To our knowledge, the information reported here is the first description of eosinophilic esophagitis (EE) in a dog. Many similarities exist between the condition in the dog reported here and EE in humans. This clinical report highlights the need to consider EE as a differential diagnosis for esophagitis and esophageal strictures in dogs. When appropriate, esophageal biopsy or cytologic specimens should be obtained and examined to investigate the possibility of EE.
Human herpesvirus-1 may be transmissible from humans to rabbits, and infection with this virus should be considered as a differential diagnosis in rabbits with CNS signs of disease.
Results of the present study suggested that ultrasonography was a useful method for determining the number and location of fragments in horses with dorsal fragmentation of the MCP or MTP joint.
Results indicated that prerace administration of furosemide decreased the incidence and severity of EIPH in Thoroughbreds racing under typical conditions in South Africa.
Euthanizing animals is a major stressor for many animal shelter workers. Information regarding the coping strategies identified in this study may be useful for training new euthanasia technicians.
The mitoxantrone-based assay can be used as a rapid FACS screening system to assess drug interactions with BCRP at the blood-brain barrier and therefore represents a useful tool in drug profiling.
This prospective study identified several factors that may predict inadequate polyethylene glycol preparation independent of compliance with preparation instructions and procedure starting time. This result may help to identify patients at an increased risk for inadequate bowel preparation for whom alternative preparation protocols would be beneficial.
Musculoskeletal injury occurs more commonly among gastroenterologists than nonprocedure-oriented internal medicine specialists. Most reported minor injuries, but members of the GI group tended to have more severe repercussions relating to ability to work. More attention to injury prevention is needed among gastroenterologists.
This simple and less costly method allows to perform good-quality AES in units having echoendoscopes availability, without the need of a more expensive dedicated probe.
These results suggest that the genetic polymorphisms of these 3 inflammation-related cytokines, IL-10, IL-8, and IL-6, are associated with the development of H. pylori-associated gastroduodenal disease.
Obese children (age: 7 to 16 y) are at higher risk of having reflux symptoms compared with the control group. This risk is independent of age, sex, or race and increases with higher BMI.
The initial response rate in individuals taking 3 months of treatment in our study is comparable with studies in non-ESRD patients with no serious adverse side effects. However, the sustained posttreatment rate was low. This demonstrates that combination therapy is a safe therapeutic option in the ESRD population with HCV infection which needs further testing to determine if increasing the length of treatment and/or the dose of ribavirin will affect posttreatment rates.
The effect of PTVE with 2-OCA on esophageal varices is associated with the site and range of embolization. With the lower esophageal and periesophageal varices and/or the cardial submucosal and perforating vessels are sufficiently obliterated, PTVE with 2-OCA can improve long-term efficacy by preventing varices recurrence and rebleeding.
Impedance detected pharyngeal reflux episodes are important factors in symptom production in cough patients.
Serum PIVKA-II level, not serum AFP, was a valuable independent prognostic factor in HBV-related HCC.
We confirm the association of CD with variants in the IL-23R and ATG16L1 genes and the more modest association of the IL-23R R381Q variant with UC. Our results also suggest that these variants act independently of one another to influence risk and pathogenesis of IBD.
Preoperative biliary drainage leads to an almost 100% bacterial contamination of bile ducts. With hospital-adjusted antibiotic prophylaxis and retrograde flushing of bile ducts, the postoperative rate of acute cholangitis and morbidity is not elevated. A critical evaluation of benefits from preoperative biliary drainage for each patient is necessary.
Although supplemental buccal and lingual infiltrations of 4% articaine or 2% lidocaine increased the success rate of the inferior alveolar nerve block in patients with irreversible pulpitis, none of the techniques provided acceptable success rates.
On the basis of these results it appears that endodontic surgery offers more favorable initial success, but nonsurgical retreatment offers a more favorable long-term outcome.
There was a higher incidence of procedural errors and a lower success rate for primary root canal treatment of teeth prepared with stainless steel files compared with the use of NiTi instruments in a continuous reaming action.
Collectively, these data indicate that both gender and age are predictive of surgical endodontic anatomic relationships and should be considered in presurgical planning.
Persistent periradicular lesions are polymicrobial infections with many as-yet-uncultivated and unknown bacterial species. The bacterial load and microbial profile of root ends is significantly different from the soft-tissue lesion, indicating the presence of diverse bacterial populations in these tissues.
These results indicated that NTP is a rare type of chronic intractable endodontic pain and that careful diagnosis of NTP is important.
The Root ZX II, Apex NRG XFR, and Mini Apex Locator used with rotary NiTi files were able to locate the apical constriction within +/-0.5 mm only 50% or less of the time.
The majority of responding endodontists believed that dental implant placement is within the scope of endodontic practice. Governing bodies of the specialty of endodontics might consider discussing whether formal implant training should be incorporated into future curricula.
Nd:YAG laser is a suitable tool for the immediately successful reduction of dentinal hypersensitivity and has better patient satisfaction and shorter treatment time.
These results suggest that the expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4 may be triggered by bacterial infection in irreversible pulpitis without a need for an adaptive immune response. Those signals may relate to pulpal responses to bacterial infection.
This multispecies biofilm model and quantitative analysis methodology may be useful for the evaluation of the antimicrobial effectiveness of endodontic disinfecting agents.
These results led to the suggestion that E. faecalis could persist in the biofilm of the human oral cavity. Because of the ubiquitous presence of E. faecalis, root canal infections may arise from different sources.
On the basis of these data, MAP-1B could be considered as a new protein involved in the terminal differentiation of odontoblasts.
We report for the first time that SLPI is expressed temporally in infected odontoblasts and may participate in the anti-inflammatory response through NF-kappaB signaling in odontoblast-like cells.
This new method for negotiation combined with careful exploration may provide an effective way for indentifying the nature of the canal system and enhancing debridement in these complex canal anatomies.
A CBCT scan was more sensitive in detecting AP compared with PR, which was more likely to miss AP when it was still present.
The present findings for both F3 and F4 ProTaper instruments revealed that the increase in rotational speed significantly reduced the number of cycles to fracture.
Stainless steel bands helped maintain structural integrity of KS restorations under masticatory function. Bands helped prevent dye penetration but not bacterial penetration. There was no association between dye and bacterial penetration.
It is possible to conclude that 5.25% NaOCl, whether associated or not associated with 17% EDTA, causes alterations in the dentin collagen. The obtained SEM images revealed demineralization areas for groups that used 17% EDTA alone or associated with other substances.
The cavitation bubbles produced using HIFU can be used as a potential method to deliver antibacterial nanoparticles into the dentinal tubules to enhance root canal disinfection.
Intracanal root restoration with composite resin and translucent fiber posts provided similar or higher bond strength to dentin than the control group, regardless of the light-exposure time used for polymerization.
In a plastic simulated canal, ultrasonic agitation was significantly more effective than needle irrigation and EndoVac irrigation at removing intracanal bacteria. Ultrasonic, EndoActivator, F-File, and sonic agitation are similar in their ability to remove bacteria in a plastic simulated canal.
The current method appears suitable to quantitatively compare different instrumenting/irrigating regimens on dentin debris accumulation.
Under the present in vitro conditions, the adhesiveness quality to root dentin promoted by both Epiphany sealers is compromised even when teeth with simple anatomic features were obturated under well-monitored laboratory conditions.
Fresh iRoot SP, AH Plus, and EndoRez killed E. faecalis effectively. IRoot SP and EndoRez continued to be effective for 3 and 7 days after mixing. Sealapex and EndoRez were the only ones with antimicrobial activity even at 7 days after mixing.
Apical canal geometry was affected differently by 6 preparation techniques; preparations with GT instruments to an apical size #20 left more canal surface untouched, which might affect the ability to disinfect root canals in maxillary molars.
This report describes and discusses the possibility of different root and canal variations of the maxillary molars from a clinical point of view. Anatomic variations can occur in any tooth, and palatal roots of maxillary first and second molars are no exception. Therefore, careful examination of radiographs and internal anatomy of teeth is essential.
Junior doctors offered an HIV test under new Department of Health occupational health guidance were disparaging about how the test was offered. The findings of this study affect thousands of junior doctors in the UK, and the impact of these results is extensive. Participants' suggestions regarding how the process of offering an HIV test can be improved are discussed and ethical issues regarding the new Department of Health policy are highlighted.
Making patients feel respected, or valued as a person, is a multi-faceted task that involves more than recognising autonomy. While patients' views of respect do not determine what respect means, these patients expressed important intuitions that may be of substantial conceptual relevance.
Current classifications of vulnerability require reinterpretation when applied to qualitative research at the end of life. We recommend that researchers and research ethics committees reconceptualize vulnerability using the domains identified in this study and consider the research context and interviewers' skills.
These long-lasting consequences of parental problem drinking on adult children's mental health should be considered when designing and financing interventions targeting problem drinkers and their families.
By analyzing the international data on scientific publications and mental health systems, we find that as countries become more advanced, they significantly increase their scientific production as well as their focus on the health sector. These two movements make it possible for countries to build their own catching-up processes, focused on the health system. Accordingly, it is expected that mental health care can benefit from that strengthening in the health care sector. IMPLICATION FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION AND USE: This paper identifies which countries need to improve their mental health and science and technology infrastructures. IMPLICATION FOR HEALTH POLICIES: The main policy recommendation refers to the strengthening of the health innovation system. This policy was chosen because, statistically speaking, according to the crisp sets and the fuzzy sets theories, this evaluation, made with data from general and especially mental health care, indicates that competence in the mental health care area requires a strong presence in terms and an emphasis on overall health.
A main research issue should be the comparison of the results of this work with those from the new database published by the World Health Organization (WHO). In this way, it will be possible to observe whether or not countries have improved their infrastructure in mental health care.
The response rate could not be calculated for each service producer; however, we estimated that this varied between 50% and 100%. Therefore our results represent this visitor population. However, our limited data did not allow any analysis of municipality-related factors which might explain the role of service patterns in costs and use of services.
A considerable proportion of total use and costs of local welfare services are due to mental health problems. The differences between municipal service patterns cause variation in total costs of care of mental disorders.
Some capacity in local primary services is allocated to mental health problems, thus enabling a shift from institutional care toward community care. However, varying local patterns may cause a risk to unequal access to mental health services.
In future studies it is important to analyse the properties of local service patterns which influence appropriate use and optimal costs of care.
High out-of-pocket expenditures are a concern for individuals with chronic diseases. Our study shows that those with depression have comparable out-of-pocket expenses to those with other chronic diseases, but given their lower income levels, this may result in a more substantial financial burden. IMPLICATION FOR POLICY: High out-of-pocket expenditures are a concern for individuals with depression and other chronic diseases. For both depressed individuals and non-depressed individuals with other chronic diseases, prescription drug expenditures contribute most to out-of-pocket expenses. Given the important role medications play in treatment of depression, high copayment rates are a concern for limiting compliance with appropriate treatment.
Patients treated for Hodgkin lymphoma experience a substantially increased risk of stroke and TIA, associated with radiation to the neck and mediastinum. Physicians should consider appropriate risk-reducing strategies.
MCPyV infection is associated with clinical outcomes in patients with Merkel cell carcinoma. These findings lend support to the hypothesis that viral infection is frequently associated with the pathogenesis of Merkel cell carcinoma.
Survivors of childhood CNS malignancies are at high risk for late mortality and for developing subsequent neoplasms and chronic medical conditions. Care providers should be informed of these risks so they can provide risk-directed care and develop screening guidelines.
The gains from BCRATplus7 are small in the applications examined. Models with SNPs, such as BCRATplus7, have not been validated for calibration in independent cohort data. Additional studies are needed to validate a model with SNPs and justify its use.
NDRG4 is a candidate tumor suppressor gene in colorectal cancer whose expression is frequently inactivated by promoter methylation. NDRG4 promoter methylation is a potential biomarker for the noninvasive detection of colorectal cancer in stool samples.
Clinical diagnosis of asbestosis by screening chest radiograph is more predictive of the postmortem presence of fibrous pleural plaques, pulmonary fibrosis, and histologically-proven asbestosis than is occupational exposure history alone. However, chest radiograph-based diagnosis of asbestosis significantly overpredicts the subsequent histologic diagnosis of asbestosis.
Reossification and reoperation rates with fat graft interposition in our series were lower than in most published reports of EDB interposition. Ankle and subtalar motion improved in a vast majority of the patients, and most patients returned to sport without requiring further surgery. Resection of a calcaneonavicular coalition with interposition of fat graft, when meticulously performed, is an effective way to relieve symptoms, restore subtalar motion, and return patients to activities, while preventing reossification.
This pilot study established the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial design for in this population. Its findings indicate that BtX-A injections appear to be safe and effective for reducing pain and improving the quality of life and functional mobility of children undergoing lengthening or deformity corrections of the lower limbs. A larger-scale study is currently underway to confirm these preliminary findings.
This study provides data on incidence of significant orthopaedic trauma in children in the United States as a result of farm equipment accidents. Most earlier studies have focused on fatality rates or have been limited to a single institution or single state or have been from a non-US population. This study provides pediatric orthopaedists, particularly those practicing in agricultural areas, with injury statistics related to farm equipment injuries that may lead to more and better safety education programs.
The risk of in-hospital mortality for injured children may be identified soon after arrival in the ED. This information may be used by frontline providers to appropriately triage patients to pediatric trauma centers quickly, to guide resuscitation, and for teaching purposes.
On the basis of our findings, head/shaft angle and percent epiphyseal displacement provide reliable and efficacious means of radiographic SCFE diagnosis. The classic definition of Klein's line fails to identify 60% of slips. We propose a modification of Klein's Line to improve sensitivity.
The functional results in the mid-term for patients with grade 3 slips treated with in situ pinning were generally good or excellent; a better result was found in patients below 12 years of age. A good or excellent result can be expected when pin placement is adequate and no complications arise.
Patients with type II sequelae before reaching skeletal maturity may present with femoroacetabular impingement symptoms. These 2 cases show that impingement-free hip motion through surgical dislocation improves symptoms.
These data suggest a genetic contribution to DDH with a 12-fold increase in risk for first-degree relatives. Better phenotypic characterization and classification will be critical for future genetic analyses.
Participating patients and parents want to know the results of research studies. Researchers should plan to inform patients by informing them of this option during the informed consent process.
Fusion to the sacrum did not significantly affect function in patients with achondroplasia, although there was a trend toward increased pain and greater difficulty with hygiene after toileting.
The 8-plate is as effective as staple hemiepiphysiodesis for guided correction of angular deformity with respect to rate of correction and complications, even in somewhat younger patients. Higher complication rates are observed in patients with pathologic physes.
Quadriceps muscle recovery is one criterion considered when allowing return to unrestricted activities after ACL reconstruction. On the basis of results of this study, middle and high school age athletes have the ability to regain the necessary quadriceps muscle strength required to return to sport within 6 months.
Using objective measures of quadriceps muscle return after ACL reconstruction can pinpoint timing of recovery, aid in specific training of deficient muscle groups, and guide return-to-play recommendations for those treating athletes with ACL reconstruction.
The biceps angle is a measure of rotational deformity in patients with residual brachial plexus birth palsy, and correlates better with external rotation than either the glenoid version or the PHHA. The biceps angle may be a useful measure of rotational glenohumeral deformity before and after surgery.
Despite differences in upper extremity and overall functional scores, children with BPBP safely participate in a broad variety of sports, at levels similar to published pediatric norms.
Static thumb alignment is not a good predictor of dynamic function, and interventions designed to improve function should focus on the assessment of dynamic thumb alignment. Improvements in both static and dynamic alignment of the thumb are possible after reconstructive surgery (consisting of muscle release, tendon transfer, and skeletal stabilization), regardless of the degree or density of underlying neurologic impairment.
This is the first study quantifying cyst resolution objectively according to actual decrease in area (millimeter squares). A single injection of alpha-BSM is a safe, minimally invasive and efficacious method to treat UBC in the pediatric population.
We have found that a shortened course of intravenous and oral antibiotic therapy is effective in the management of acute uncomplicated bone and joint sepsis in children.
Limitations of our study include its cross-sectional design, which did not allow us to examine direct causative mechanisms or the effects of progression of illness, and the potential environmental bias introduced by comparing patient groups recruited from different regions of the world.
Our data indicate a possible tyrosine nitration-induced damage in patients with bipolar disorder that is present from the early stage of illness. Our data also indicate that patients in the late stage of illness demonstrate enhanced activity of GR and GST, which could suggest the involvement of a compensatory system in bipolar disorder.
Our study limitations include the fact that we turned off the stimulator during the electrophysiological recordings, which likely decreased the vagal tone to the brain. Also, we obtained the data while the animals were under anesthesia, therefore studies need to be carried out in unanesthetized rats to ascertain whether the anesthetic agent influenced the changes observed between control rats and those treated with VNS.
Vagus nerve stimulation initially increases the firing activity and pattern of NE neurons and subsequently those of 5-HT neurons, presumably as a cascade effect via alpha(1)-postsynaptic adrenoceptors. To date, VNS appears to be a unique antidepressant treatment increasing 5-HT transmission and enhancing the firing activity of NE neurons. These effects could contribute to the effectiveness of VNS in treatment-resistant depression.
Our study, conducted with tissue samples from men only, made use of a nonspecific stain that does not distinguish between neuronal or glial cell subtypes. Furthermore, the quantitative analysis concerned upper and lower cortical contours rather than individual cortical layers.
Our results indicate that in BA24, glial density, neuronal density and soma size are not affected in MDD and suicide. They also suggest that alcohol dependence has an important influence on glial densities in this key limbic structure.
Our study did not allow for disentangling the effects of PTSD and traumatization. Another limitation was the relatively small sample size.
Our findings highlight the importance of classifying subgroups of patients with BPD. Comorbid PTSD may be related to volumetric alterations in brain regions that are of central importance to our understanding of borderline psychopathology.
The small sample size may have limited our ability to detect group differences in other relevant brain regions and in behavioural measures.
In addition to prior findings of probes of social information processing, our findings suggest that the amygdala and insula responses are hyper-reactive to general emotional images with negative emotional content and that these brain regions may play divergent roles in their representation of different phenotypes.
Limitations to our study include the lack of comparison between medicated and unmedicated patients or between types of medication.
These findings suggest that disruptions in integrative processing of motivationally important stimuli show promise as a potential biological marker of social cognitive impairments, present from the first episode of schizophrenia, and their outcomes.
Limitations are the sample size and restricted comparison to the psychophysiological ASR paradigm.
The results point toward a hypersensitive central nervous system (fear system), including early sensorimotor processing alterations and autonomic hyperreactivity. The multiple muscle (whole-body) ASR is suggested to be a better tool to detect ASR abnormalities in patients with anxiety disorders than the blink response alone. Abnormalities in ASR serve as a candidate endophenotype of anxiety disorders.
We measured the signal proteins under study in peripheral blood.
Serum BDNF levels in patients with anorexia nervosa depend on the state of illness and the degree of hypoleptinemia. Upregulation of BDNF in weight-recovered patients with anorexia nervosa could be part of a regenerative process after biochemical and molecular neuronal injury due to prolonged malnutrition. Associations between the BDNF and the 5-HT system in humans remain to be established.
In the selected cohort, the SAD most commonly reported in association with chronic HCV infection were SS (nearly half the cases), RA and SLE. Nearly two thirds of SAD-HCV cases were reported from the Mediterranean area. In these patients, ANA, RF and cryoglobulins are the predominant immunological features.
In patients with early RA, adalimumab plus MTX resulted in less radiographic progression than MTX monotherapy across the spectrum of clinical response, including ACR20 non-responses and remission-like responses.
RA patients undergoing antirheumatic therapy display a nonatherogenic conventional lipid profile, i.e., high HDL-c, low apolipoprotein B concentrations, and low apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio. This may be counteracted by the high prevalence of hyperlipoproteinemia(a) observed in these patients.
Contrast-enhanced coded phase-inversion harmonic B-mode sonography coupled with an appropriate data analysis method is a new tool to identify and quantify vessel density in knee synovitis.
A majority of patients with RA seen between 1980 and 2004 had abnormal ESR, CRP, or RF. However, more than 37% of patients had ESR &lt; 28 mm/h, normal CRP, or all negative RF tests. Similarities of laboratory test data at 2 sites on different continents with different duration of disease suggest generalizability of the findings. Normal ESR, CRP, and RF are seen in a substantial proportion of patients with RA at this time.
Occupational kneeling increases the risk of degenerative tears in the medial but not the lateral menisci in both knees.
The association of lower HRQOL with NP events over time, which is independent of progression in cumulative organ damage, emphasizes the persistent negative effect of NP events in the lives of patients with SLE.
Rheumatologists, patients, and arthritis nurses all highly appreciated the implementation package and indicated that its availability would increase uptake of COBRA therapy.
The 6MWD relates to broad factors in SSc and these results raise doubts about the specificity of the 6MWD in this systemic disease, and its relevance to monitoring therapy.
SRC is a rare manifestation of SSc in Italy but it is still associated with severe prognosis. Anti-topo I reactivity was more frequent than anti-RNAP I-III in our patients with SRC and was associated with delayed onset and high mortality rates.
With the use of these 4 TB screening tests in India, where TB is highly prevalent, TB could be excluded with a high degree of certainty (NPV 0.97). However, as even this combination of tests has only moderate sensitivity and specificity and poor PPV for detecting TB, vigilance may be advisable even if only one of the tests is positive.
In our cohort about one-third of cases obtained a remission episode in 4 decades of observation, with a significant difference between oligoarthritis and other categories (p &lt; 0.001) using the Kaplan-Meier method; the remission status duration before a relapse has been about 20 months, without a significant difference between JIA categories.
HRQOL with cSLE is significantly lower than that reported in healthy populations. Organ-specific involvement with cSLE has a differential effect on HRQOL. Higher disease activity and damage are associated with significantly lower HRQOL as measured by the PedsQL-RM and the CHQ-PHS, and worsening of cSLE leads to a further decline.
We obtained data on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of anti-TNF drugs using the HAQ score, which is known to be an excellent predictor of work disability, morbidity, and mortality. HAQ scores decreased with treatment and were sustained throughout the 3-5 years of followup. The NNT of approximately 2 seems favorable and was similar between diseases.
Interventions to improve control over arthritis symptoms should be studied with the goal of improving surgical outcomes.
Significant decreases in several inflammatory biomarkers were associated with golimumab + MTX therapy. Decreases in serum levels of SAA, E-selectin, and MMP-9 at Week 4 may be useful in predicting clinical response at Week 16.
We have demonstrated a relationship between allelic variation in the gene encoding GHRH and bone density; we welcome attempts at replication in other populations.
Male patients with early onset SSc, more severe skin fibrosis, impaired DLCO, and anti-topo I were most likely to exhibit prior or current digital ulcers. Confirmation of these results in a prospective longitudinal study may enable identification of patients at greatest risk of developing digital ulcers, facilitating management of this disabling complication.
Self-reports of comorbidities do not provide optimal data for the identification of common, chronic conditions in patients with SSc.
Patients with recent-onset arthritis report a substantial influence on health status. Mono- and oligoarthritis are at least as frequent as polyarthritis. Polyarthritic patients more frequently exhibit features associated with a worse outcome.
We show high diagnostic accuracy of a novel US scoring system of salivary glands (0-48) in patients with primary SS comparable to invasive methods, i.e., scintigraphy and salivary gland biopsy.
Severe cerebral vasculopathy is associated with severe vascular manifestations in SSc patients. SSc patients with severe vascular complications should undergo neuroradiological imaging assessment of brain involvement.
The prevalence of HBV and HCV in a population of patients with recent-onset polyarthritis suggestive of RA was not greater than expected based on data from the general population in the same geographic area. Routine HBV and HCV serological testing did not contribute substantially to the diagnosis of recent-onset polyarthritis. Although advisable before initiating immunosuppressive or hepatotoxic drugs, serological testing for HCV and HBV is unnecessary in routine diagnostic evaluation of recent-onset polyarthritis.
The extent of SSc lung involvement on HRCT rapidly but transiently regressed after AHSCT.
Our results show for the first time an association of TLR4-(+896 A/G) gene polymorphism with susceptibility to biopsy-proven GCA.
These changes in attitude may signal an opportunity for successful tobacco control activity in traditionally tobacco-dependent states and rural communities.
IPV is a significant public health problem in rural areas, affecting a similar portion of the population as in non-rural areas. More research is needed to examine how the experience of IPV is different for rural and non-rural residents.
RHCs in rural Oregon were associated with higher rates of recommended primary care for diabetes, consistent with the intent of the policy intervention.
Among insured adults, use of chiropractic care was higher in rural than in urban areas. Reasons suggested for this difference in previous reports were not borne out in this data set.
Decisions about allocating VA health care resources to target "rural" patients may be affected greatly by the rural classification system chosen, and the impact of this choice will affect some hospital networks much more than others.
Career-changers (individuals entering the CNA role from another job) represent a major recruitment target. The prevalence of informal networks in CNA recruitment history suggests that nursing homes seeking to become "employers of choice" will be advantaged when recruiting.
The context of living in a rural environment may present unique barriers to facilitate parent-child communication when discussing intimate topics. The design of interventions needs to take into consideration these issues, particularly when attempting to serve hard-to-reach populations.
Conducted 4 months prior to the implementation of Medicare Part D, the results serve as a baseline against which the effects of Part D on MTMS provision may be evaluated. The negative association of pharmacist workload with pharmacy provision of DTS, coupled with the current pharmacist shortage, has important implications for patients' access to these services in rural areas.
Number and type(s) of certifications and years of experience as an RN were associated with higher comfort levels. Responses to open-ended questions provided insight into the realities of rural emergency nursing and strategies for improving comfort levels of rural nurses in emergency situations.
Background knowledge of CRC among HPRN health care professionals could be improved. The RESULTS of this pilot study may help focus effective approaches such as increasing provider knowledge to enhance CRC screening in the relevant population.
Effective inpatient psychiatric care can be provided in rural hospitals.
For-profit RRCs generated a substantially higher cash flow margin by controlling their operating costs.
While cognitive impairment was nearly universal in this rural population of very elderly persons, almost 40% had not progressed to full dementia. Determining risk factors for dementia in this population can identify strategies to prevent progression to dementia among younger elderly populations.
Parent-only interventions may be a cost-effective alternative treatment for pediatric obesity, especially for families in medically underserved settings.
Our data suggest PAR1 overexpression may be involved in the development of metastases in breast cancer patient and is associated with undifferentiated cellular progression of the tumor. Further studies are needed to understand PAR1 mechanism of action and in a near future assay its potential use as risk factor for metastasis development in high grade breast cancer patients.
These studies confirm VLC/myeloid cells as therapeutic targets in ovarian cancer. Our data provide critical pre-clinical evidence supporting the use of Alemtuzumab in clinical trials to test its efficacy as an anti-myeloid cell antiangiogenic therapeutic in ovarian cancer. The identification of an FDA approved anti-VLC agent with a history of clinical use will allow immediate proof-of-principle clinical trials in patients with ovarian cancer.
PZIR is effective for controlling glycemia in diabetic cats and can be used as an initial treatment or as an alternative treatment in diabetic cats that do not respond to treatment with other insulin preparations.
This study demonstrates a high incidence of azotemia in a population of previously healthy geriatric cats. Proteinuria at presentation was significantly associated with development of azotemia although causal association cannot be inferred. Evaluation of NAG index offered no additional benefit.
Serial arthrocentesis at 3-week intervals can rarely be associated with mild mononuclear joint inflammation, but does not appear to induce neutrophilic inflammation, at least in healthy dogs, and can be useful to monitor treatment response in canine IMPA.
These findings suggest that the prognosis for dogs with IEGM may be good when recognized and managed appropriately. When surgery is performed, medical treatment should also be added.
Mutations within these cardiac genes do not appear to be the only cause of HCM in these breeds. Evaluation of additional cardiac genes is warranted to identify additional molecular causes of this feline cardiac disease.
TSH dose significantly influenced test interpretation in suspected hypothyroid dogs. Differentiation between primary hypothyroidism and nonthyroidal disease was improved with 150 microg rhTSH. Because this effect was independent of the dogs' body weight, the higher dose is recommended in dogs that have concurrent disease or are receiving medication.
The prednisolone regimen presented was successful in treating SRMA without the need for additional drugs. Serum APPs are of use in the diagnosis and management of SRMA, particularly in relation to identifying relapse. Serum and CSF IgA concentrations remain increased throughout disease, aiding in diagnosis but not contributing to the management of SRMA.
The cases presented here demonstrate a larger age range (7 weeks to 5 years) and a decreased frequency of associated hydrocephalus when compared with the previous report.
Peritoneal D-dimer concentration is markedly higher in severe GI disorders, and it can be used to assess peritoneal fibrinolytic activity in horses with colic.
Exenatide appeared to increase insulin release and decrease plasma glucose concentrations in hyperglycemic alpacas. These findings are similar to findings in humans and could support therapeutic usage of exenatide in alpacas. However, induction of colic may limit practical application.
Treg percentages in blood were increased in dogs with cancer, particularly in dogs with carcinoma. The Treg/CD8 ratio also identified tumor-specific abnormalities in dogs with cancer. These findings indicate that tumor-specific factors may affect Tregs in dogs.
PLN and HAX-1 can be potential biomarkers for heart failure caused by CMVI.
GFR was &lt;2 mL/min/kg in untreated hypothyroid dogs. Re-establishment of a euthyroid state increased GFR significantly.
Serum cTnI cannot be used to distinguish cattle with pericarditis from cattle with other primary cardiac diseases. In addition, serum cTnI concentrations cannot distinguish between cattle with primary cardiac diseases and those with other noncardiac, intrathoracic disorders.
No overlap in ACTH concentrations was observed between dogs with ADHAC and dogs with AIHAC. The use of a new technique with high analytical sensitivity made it possible to use a low threshold (5 pg/mL), avoiding the misclassification of some ADHAC cases with low, but quantifiable concentrations of ACTH. The assessment of ACTH concentrations by ILMA is an accurate tool for differentiating between ADHAC and AIHAC.
Both diets achieved a significant improvement in HE score. The influence of the soy-based diet on plasma NH3 concentration and coagulation parameters suggests that such a diet decreases the risk for HE and gives better support of liver function.
Prognosis is poor to grave.
Lateral body positioning significantly increases cervical esophageal transit time and affects the type of peristaltic wave generated by a swallow.
HPA axis dysfunction occurs frequently in hospitalized neonatal foals, and negatively impacts disease severity and survival.
Diurnal LAP is characterized by a slight but significant nocturnal decrease and abrupt increases in response to excitation. The latter seemed to be more important considering the relationship with clinical manifestations. The clinical relevance of exercise restriction in the management of MR was acknowledged.
Systolic radial motion of the LV at the chordal level could be reliably characterized in horses by 2DST. Circumferential measurements were less reliable. Diastolic measurements were invalid because of inaccurate tracking. The clinical value of LV wall motion analysis by 2DST in horses requires further investigation.
Our results show that IHPSS in Irish Wolfhounds is a familial disorder that is likely genetic. It is unlikely that the mode of inheritance is monogenic. A digenic, triallelic trait could explain the observed occurrence of IHPSS but other modes of inheritance cannot be excluded.
The lack of concordance between the effect on coronary heart disease risk of CRP genotypes and CRP levels argues against a causal association of CRP with coronary heart disease.
Selected biomarkers may be used to predict future cardiovascular events, but the gains over conventional risk factors are minimal. Risk classification improved in intermediate-risk individuals, mainly through the identification of those unlikely to develop events.
Bone-morphogenetic protein was used in approximately 25% of all spinal fusions nationally in 2006, with use associated with more frequent complications for anterior cervical fusions and with greater hospital charges for all categories of fusions.
The serum potassium level significantly affected not only physical health, but also QOL, a measure of psychosocial health. This suggests that providing nursing support to patients, guided by the serum potassium target range of 3.5-5.0 mEq/L, might improve and maintain QOL.
The results of the present study provided evidence to support that a regular family visiting program could induce the stimulation of comatose patients. Therefore, it can be considered as a potential nursing intervention.
The EPDS score decreased with an increased frequency of delivery, suggesting that the experience of delivery would impact on postnatal depression, partly because of decreased obstetric events. However, a social assistance system is needed for women with general health abnormalities, less sociability, worries about baby care, and limited cooperation of the husband for both primiparas and multiparas.
Positive effects of the support program were observed on two subscales of the SF-36 in the subgroup that did not use ovulation-enhancing agents.
Self-management education works successfully in relation to patients' behavior modification skills, degree of goal attainment, and self-efficacy, consequently improving their health outcomes.
Cataract surgery may lead to dry eye. A grooved incision can aggravate the symptoms during the early postoperative period in patients without dry eye preoperatively. Long microscopic light exposure times can have an adverse effect on dry eye test values.
Accumulation of intraretinal fluid was related to poor initial visual acuity, but not to final visual acuity. High resolution OCT findings indicate that edema of the photoreceptor layer participates in the development of a cystoid space.
In patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema who receive intravitreal TA, effects may last longer after a dosage of 25 mg, than after lower doses of 8 mg or 4 mg.
Hypotony-related early complications requiring surgical intervention were reduced by ligation and external stents in the tube. In addition, early postoperative high IOPs were managed by removing external stents. The described method can prevent postoperative hypotony after AGV implantation and showed long-term success rates comparable to those reported previously.
This study supports the notion that IMCs in human EOMs function mainly as proprioceptors, along with effector properties, and a disturbance of ocular proprioceptors plays an important role in the pathogenesis of oculomotor disorder. We suggest that a proprioceptive feedback system should be stimulated and calibrated early in life for the development of binocular vision.
Three-phase CT seems to be a valuable non-invasive method to differentiate a high-flow lesion from a low flow lesion of head and neck vascular lesions.
The sensitivity of contrast-enhanced 3D TOF-MRA at 3.0 Tesla is high but the specificity is not sufficient for the detection of a residual AVM after radiosurgery.
The interscan and interobserver variability of CAC on a prospective ECG-triggered 64-slice CT with high image quality and 45% of RR acquisition is not significantly affected by heart rate, BMI, or noise level. The volume or mass algorithms show reduced interscan variability compared to the Agatston scoring (p &lt; 0.05).
The DSCT provides a high rate of accuracy for the detection of significant coronary artery disease, even in patients with high heart rates and evidence of coronary calcification. However, patients with severe coronary calcification (&gt; 400 U) remain a challenge to diagnose.
Transperineal US is a good diagnostic modality for the identification of internal fistulas in cases of high-type IA and for defining the IA level.
NBCA can be an effective and feasible embolic agent in patients with active arterial esophageal bleeding, even with pre-existing coagulopathy.
Percutaneous RF ablation of HCCs adjacent to the gallbladder using an internally cooled electrode is a safe and effective treatment. Significant risk factors that lead to early incomplete treatment include tumor size, tumor location and electrode direction.
Ablation using a mixture of NBCA and iodized oil may be an effective, safe method for obtaining symptom relief in patients with ADPKD.
Angiographically negative results are relatively common in patients with acute GI bleeding, especially in patients with a stable hemodynamic status or lower GI bleeding. Most patients with a negative bleeding focus have experienced spontaneous resolution of their condition.
The superselective microcoil embolization can help successfully treat patients with active LGI bleeding in the small bowel, identified by the results of an angiography. The mortality rate is not significantly different between the patients of the visualization and non-visualization groups on angiography.
Efficient transfer of genes into S. ipomoeae was achieved here by using an optimized intergeneric mating procedure.
The described protocol will facilitate further genetic manipulation of this agriculturally important pathogen.
Escherichia coli Mcc24, a genetically modified organism producing microcin 24, and E. coli L1000, a natural strain isolated from human faeces carrying the mcb-operon for microcin B17-production, were the most effective strains in inhibiting in vitro both antibiotic resistant and sensitive Salmonella isolates.
Due to an increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistant Salmonella strains, alternative strategies to fight these foodborne pathogens are needed. E. coli L1000 appears to be a promising candidate in view of developing biotechnological alternatives to antibiotics against Salmonella infections.
Ralstonia eutropha AAJ1 could degrade and detoxify phorate upto 85% in 10 days in laboratory conditions.
The isolate has the potential to be utilized for remediation of phorate-contaminated water and soil.
Weissella cibaria produces large quantities of hydrogen peroxide in aerated cultures, in a process that is dependent on the presence of acetate in the culture medium. NADH oxidase is likely the key enzyme in this process.
This is the first study showing that sodium acetate, normally present in culture media of LAB, is a key factor for hydrogen peroxide production by W. cibaria. The exact mechanisms involved are not known.
Based on the data obtained by MLVA, it was found that (i) many E. faecalis isolates recovered from patients from the wards whose location allowed the potential transmission of micro-organisms, belonged to closely related MLVA types and (ii) possible relationships between specific E. faecalis genotype and the virulence factors lipase, haemolysin and esp gene can exist.
Our study confirms that MLVA is a suitable method for the epidemiological study of E. faecalis and for the first time shows possible relationships between specific genotypes and such virulence determinants, i.e. lipase, haemolysin and esp gene.
An industrial brewer's yeast strain was constructed by introducing GAI gene and disrupting PEP4 gene.
The recombinant strain (Ts-10) had better foam performance and mouthfeel in addition to low-calories values. It was free of heterologous DNA sequences and drug-resistance genes and could be safely used in beer production.
The results obtained clearly showed the superiority of wheat bran for laccase production over stainless steel sponges and plastic material. Supplementing the wheat bran solid medium with 2 mmol l(-1) copper sulfate allowed obtaining high activities at flask scale. The system was scaled to fixed-bed laboratory reactor.
The high enzyme production along with the low-cost of the substrate, showed the suitability of the system F. fomentarius- SSF for industrial purposes.
For both pathogens, the LOD was similar to that of the corresponding ISO method, while decreasing the analysis time and handling needs.
The agreement between standard ISO and the enrichment real-time PCR(IAC)-based methods make the latter method as a promising alternative for quick and reliable detection of food-borne pathogens in fresh fruit and vegetables in routine laboratories.
Of 141 fungal endophytes from A. ginnala, Phomopsis sp. isolate SX10 showed both the highest content and the highest yield of gallic acid (29.25 mg g(-1) DW; 200.47 mg l(-1)).
Endophytic fungi isolated from A. ginnala may be used as potential producers of gallic acid and other compounds with biological activities, or functioned as elicitors to produce natural compounds.
Our results indicate that cphA seems to be intrinsic in the environmental isolates of Aer. hydrophila and Aer. jandaei in southeastern Brazil, although, based on the combined disk test, not all of them are apparently able to express the enzymatic activity.
These data confirm the presence of MBL-producing Aeromonas species in natural water reservoirs. Risk of waterborne diseases owing to domestic and industrial uses of freshwater should be re-examined from the increase of bacterial resistance point of view.
By comparing colony volumes and cell numbers, the formation of dead fraction can be noticed from the beginning of the stationary phase, which indicates that the stationary phase is a dynamic - including both cell death and cell growth - rather than a static phase.
This study was the first to investigate the proportion of living and dead bacteria within a stationary colony quantitatively.
Sphagnum-derived phenolics exhibit antibacterial activity in vitro only at concentrations far in excess of those found in the leaves.
We have both identified the phenolic compounds in S. papillosum and assessed their antibacterial activity. Our data indicate that phenolic compounds in isolation are not potent antibacterial agents and we question their potency against food-borne pathogens.
The DPO-based multiplex PCR assay detected the six sexually transmitted pathogens in clinical specimens with a high sensitivity and specificity, although its sensitivity was dependent on the DNA content of the samples.
It is the first report about the new DPO-based technique to detect multiple sexually transmitted pathogens in a single assay, which has considerable potential to diagnose the infections accurately and rapidly.
This study demonstrated that healthy sheep in So Paulo, Brazil, can be carriers of potential human pathogenic STEC and atypical EPEC.
As some of the STEC serotypes presently found have been involved with haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) in other countries, the important role of sheep as sources of STEC infection in our settings should not be disregarded.
The 16S rRNA gene sequence confirmed that the isolate NII-186 was belongs to Pantoea genus and showed considerable differences in physiological properties with previously reported species of this genus. Isolate NII-186 possessed multiple attributes of plant growth-promoting activity.
Hence in the context it is proposed that Pantoea sp. NII-186, could be deployed as an inoculant to attain the desired plant growth-promoting activity in agricultural environment.
Simultaneous modulation of the expression level of SPT15 and SPT3 can increase the production of ethanol by improving osmotic tolerance and ethanol tolerance of industrial strains.
Modulation of transcription factors provides a route to fermentation phenotypes of industrial yeast strains that are not readily accessible by traditional methods.
The whole cell qRT-PCR based methods were convenient, accurate and reproducible in quantification of rrn copy number of prokaryotic cells.
qTR-PCR is a fast and reliable DNA quantification approach. Compared with previous qTR-PCR based methods measuring rrn copy number, the present method avoided the prerequisite for the information on genome size and GC content of target bacteria or a gene with known copy number, thus should be more widely applicable.
Differences in release from each faecal substrate and between FIO type (E. coli and intestinal enterococci) were observed in this laboratory study. The order of release of E. coli from the faecal matrices (greatest to least, expressed as a percentage of the total present) was dairy cattle slurry &gt; beef cattle FYM &gt; beef-cattle faeces &gt; sheep faeces. For intestinal enterococci the order of percentage release was dairy cattle slurry &gt; beef-cattle faeces &gt; beef cattle FYM &gt; sheep faeces.
This laboratory-based method provides the first data on the relative release kinetics of FIO from different faecal matrices in rain water. This is fundamental information needed to parameterize laboratory-based microbial models and inform approaches to field and catchment risk assessment.
A newly isolated strain of Penicillium sp. used in this work yielded good lipase activities compared to the literature.
The growing interest in lipase production is related to the potential biotechnological applications that these enzymes present. New lipase producers are relevant to finding enzymes with different catalytic properties of commercial interest could be obtained, without using genetically modified organisms (GMO).
The GLA production of M. rouxii could be enhanced by optimizing the agricultural by-product substrates and culture condition.
Low cost GLA production process was achieved, and fermented product containing GLA can be incorporated into feed additives without further oil extraction to alternate the expensive plant oils.
The two-stage screening method clearly identified growth defects in A. fumigatus related specifically to siderophore biosynthesis.
The increasing incidence of life-threatening fungal infections has produced an urgent need for novel antifungal agents. The method described in this report will facilitate the identification of novel antifungal compounds that inhibit a pathway critical for A. fumigatus virulence and have a reduced probability of affecting host metabolism.
This study demonstrated unequivocally that P. entomophila can synthesize HCN, placing it among the small number of cyanogenic bacteria. Our data indicate that HCN production in P. entomophila is regulated by oxygen availability.
Pseudomonas entomophila was recently identified to be the only pseudomonad that naturally infects and induces lethality of Drosophila melanogaster. The virulence factors which contribute to entomopathogenicity exerted by this species are largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that P. entomophila produces HCN, a secondary metabolite implicated in biocontrol properties and pathogenicity exerted by other bacteria.
The increase in the total number of ethics consultations is interpreted as a positive outcome of the mandatory policy. The mandatory ethics consultation policy has possibly increased exposure to ethics consultant-physician interactions, increased learning for physicians, and raised awareness among physicians and nurses of potential ethics assistance.
Despite the wide use of the New York Heart Association/World Health Organization functional class in clinical care and as a research tool, interrater agreement may be inadequate. Efforts to promote a uniform approach to evaluating functional class might help to standardize PAH care and research.
Heavy ion irradiation increases the expression of STAT-3 gene, makes SMMC-7721 cells arrested at G(2)/M phase and increases cell apoptosis in comparison with that induced by low-LET X-ray. The STAT-3 expression may be regarded as a protected reaction when the cancerous cells suffer a strong stimulus such as high-LET irradiation. The interaction of STAT-3 expression and other cytokines in human hepatoma and the relationship between STAT-3 and radiation-induced apoptosis remain to be clarified in the future.
Chronic adenosine A2b receptor stimulation blocks cardiac myocyte apoptosis in the remote myocardium even when started after the onset of infarction. This may explain the anti-remodelling-effect of the A2b receptor stimulation after infarction.
Our results uncover a cellular microglial pathway triggered by CBR2 activation. These data suggest that the reduction of pro-inflammatory factors and microglial migration via MKP-3 induction is part of the mechanism of action of CBR2 agonists. These findings may have clinical implications for further drug development.
This study provides an in vivo mouse model of LTP at synapses of C-fibers onto the superficial DH neurons that will be valuable for studying the DH neuron excitability and their synaptic plasticity and hyperalgesia. It further takes advantage of examining functional implications of a specific gene targeted mice and demonstrates that the EphB1 receptor is essential for development of LTP.
LMO2 is a promising marker for predicting a better prognosis in pancreatic cancer.
T4's nongenomic regulation of sodium current occurs in different neuronal subtypes, requires the activity of specific phosphorylation pathways, and requires both integrin alphaVbeta3 and Na(v)1.6a. Our in vivo analyses identify molecules required for T4's rapid regulation of voltage-gated sodium current.
The Lim-HD proteins Lhx9 and Lhx1 serve as a binary switch in controlling the rostral versus caudal longitudinal turning of the caudal commissural axons. Lhx1 determines caudal turning and Lhx9 triggers rostral turning.
Further work is needed to more clearly define the role of those genes in the clinical effects of GA.
Our results show that not only do neural precursors proliferate in the SVZ, there is definite and real response in the penumbra and ischemic cortex, suggesting the ability of repair in the central nervous system.
Since IL-7 exhibits trophic properties in developing brain, down-regulation of IL-7 by hypoxia may contribute to hypoxia-induced injury to neural cells.
ESR is not relevantly increased in patients harboring brain tumors. Because it remains elevated until the tenth post-operative day after uneventful craniotomy and generally responds more slowly than other indicators like C-reactive protein, it is also not suitable for the detection of post-operative infective complications.
Nurr1, required for the expression of Ret, had inducing effect on TH positive cells, and Ret may promote maturation of DA neuron by up-regulating DAT expression through its ligand. As a cooperator, Ret seems to work together with Nurr1 in the development of DA neurons.
We did not find that the LCModel software is superior to the software of the manufacturer. Reproducibility of metabolite values relies more on the observance of the quality parameters than on the software used.
Less invasive endovascular approaches proved to be highly effective in curing certain types of mandibular AVMs. Every malformation requires a tailored endovascular strategy in terms of approach and selection of an embolizing agent.
These data confirm the efficacy and safety of BoNT-A treatment in CD over an extended period of up to 14 years.
The advantage of the intracarotid injection route is the absence of an operative scar in the cranium. This established animal model is a novel model of primary diffuse leptomeningeal gliomatosis. This model probably can be used for pre-clinical testing in the progression of glioblastoma.
Afferents from the interanterodorsal and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei, which increase the role of the septal area in arousal and awareness, are reported for the first time. Projecting cells to the MS support the learning-related function of this area. Projecting cells to the LS that are more scattered throughout the brain indicate its involvement in more diverse functions.
The results cited above suggest that an important role in restoration of good neurological function after section of the lower trunk of BP in neonate rats is played by early nerve repair. Good neurological function was related more to a quite numerical balance of motoneurons between the two anterior gray horns of spinal cord than to the absolute number of rescued motoneurons.
In the last 30 years, nothing important changed at the time of appearance of meningiomas, concerning the gender distribution and localisation as well as histological subtypes. With better operating modalities and additional treatment with radiation and gamma knife, the mortality decreased significantly from 12 to 3% and the outcome of the patients is still improving, so that even elderly patients with intracranial meningioma can undergo surgical treatment with minor risks.
These findings demonstrate that TPM has marked neuroprotective effect in an experimental model of SAH in rabbits. This observation may have clinical implications suggesting that this antiepileptic drug could be used as a possible neuroprotective agent in patients without major adverse effects.
The cases highlight the importance of supportive placements that comprise openness with opportunities, tolerance of inter-generational differences and invitations to become part of the nursing team. The challenge for nurse educators is how to best prepare students for the complexities of the social, cultural and political arena of clinical practice.
While the importance of information and communication technology to student's learning and to their preparedness for practice has been established, it is evident that students' motivation is influenced by their level of confidence and competence, and their understanding of the relevance of information and communication technology to their future careers.
Nursing education in Greece seems to influence the attitudes and knowledge of nursing students towards older people. However, revisions and improvements in curricula are needed if nursing students are to gain a more holistic perspective of older people.
Nursing students reported that the simulations were educationally, professionally, and clinically relevant. The cost benefit of using DVD simulations as an alternative and potential replacement to elements of nursing clinical placements should be investigated further.
The present study revealed no difference in postprandial blood glucose response or gastric emptying after the ingestion of rye whole-meal bread compared with white wheat bread.
So far, plasma  desaturation index has been well correlated with hypertriglyceridemia and we, by employing two models of obesity namely, WNIN/Ob and WNIN/GR-Ob, have shown  desaturation index of plasma correlated with physical markers of obesity such as BMI and AI. In conclusion,  desaturation index may serve as a potential sensitive biochemical marker to assess the degree of obesity and impact of therapeutic/nutritional interventions to combat obesity, along with other indicators.
Acute stress amplifies sex differences in risk seeking; making women more risk avoidant and men more risk seeking. Evolutionary principles may explain these stress-induced sex differences in risk taking behavior.
Taken together, our data suggest that the monoamine receptors targeted by trazodone play an important role in sleep-dependent consolidation of synaptic plasticity. They also demonstrate that changes in sleep architecture are not necessarily reliable predictors of how hypnotics affect sleep-dependent neural functions.
Our data indicate that in EspP i) the correct formation of the tertiary structure of the passenger domain is essential for efficient autotransport, and ii) an elastase-like serine protease domain in the N-terminal Domain 1 is responsible for the proteolytic phenotype. Lack of stabilizing interactions of Domain 1 with the core structure of the passenger domain ablates proteolytic activity in subtypes EspPbeta and EspPdelta.
Only 57% of front-page stories reporting on medical research are based on mature research, which tends to have a higher evidence level than research with preliminary findings. Medical research news should be clearly referenced and state the evidence level and limitations to inform the public of the maturity and quality of the source.
The leucine zipper of FOXP3 does not mediate dimerization or interaction with NFAT, NF-kB and RUNX1, but is indispensable for the characteristic phenotype and function in Treg cells. FOXP3Delta2Delta7 could play a role in regulating the function of the other FOXP3 isoforms and may be involved in cancer pathogenesis, as it is overexpressed by certain malignant cells.
Results indicate that LDV-induced activation of lymphocytes is due to recognition of LDV nucleic acid by TLR7 pattern recognition receptors in pDC's that respond with a lymphocyte-inducing IFNalpha response.
In contrast to previous studies, the rs4950928 G allele, and not the C allele, was found to be associated with asthma. A few other SNPs of the CHI3L1 was found to be significantly associated with atopy and FEV1/FVC ratio, respectively. Thus, more studies seem warranted to establish the role of CHI3L1 gene in asthma and atopy.
These findings collectively demonstrate that CTCF-binding at the human MYC locus does not repress transcriptional activity but is required for protection from DNA methylation.
Modification in antioxidant activity by maternal low protein diet could predispose to pancreatic islet dysfunction later in life and provide new insights to define a molecular mechanism responsible for intrauterine programming of endocrine pancreas.
When added to insulin regimens, pioglitazone confers a small advantage in terms of HbA1c in type 2 diabetes patients with previous inadequate glucose control, but at the cost of increased hypoglycaemia and weight gain. Other considerations include the risk of heart failure, fractures in women, a reduced insulin dose, and the net financial cost.
Our work provides extensive new information about how the transcriptome of GBS responds to growth in AF, and thus new leads for pathogenesis research.
These results provide a precedent for TB strain-specific effects upon HIV-1 replication and thus for TB strain-specific pathogenesis in the outcome of HIV-1/TB co-infection. MTb strain-specific factors and mechanisms involved in the regulation of HIV-1 during co-infection will be of importance in understanding the basic pathogenesis of HIV-1/TB co-infection.
To our knowledge this is the most comprehensive study to date of the etiologic agents associated with ILI in Peru. These results demonstrate that a wide range of respiratory pathogens are circulating in Peru and this fact needs to be considered by clinicians when treating patients reporting with ILI. Furthermore, these data have implications for influenza vaccine design and implementation in South America.
Functional analyses of ectopically expressed copies of the variant miRNA precursors demonstrate loss of function, gain of function or altered expression levels. While confirmation is required, this study suggests that microRNA mutations can contribute to schizophrenia.
In certain respects our observations with the anomalous batch strikingly resemble some published reports of unusual DHPG effects. The present findings could therefore contribute to explaining discrepancies in the literature. DHPG is widely employed to study mGluRs in different systems, hence rigorous controls should be performed before conclusions based on its use are drawn.
Taking into account the high rate of potential vitamin-drug interactions, especially among older children and patients with chronic illness, parents and healthcare providers need to balance the potential benefit of concurrent vitamin-medication use with its potential harms.
In the multisystem injured patient, LECS remains a major diagnostic and treatment challenge with significant risks of limb loss as well as complications from decompressive fasciotomy. These data underscore the importance of routine surveillance for LECS. In addition, a thorough knowledge of regional anatomy is essential to avoid technical morbidity.
This is the first report describing long-term follow-up after laparoscopic management of SPT. All three patients developed recurrences. These poor results contrast sharply with the low risk of local or disseminated recurrence after open laparotomy without chemotherapy that has been considered as the treatment of choice up to now. Recurrences after laparoscopic management may have been due to diffusion of tumor cells caused by gas insufflation especially during biopsy. Laparoscopic biopsy should not be performed in patients presenting SPT.
Continuous epidural analgesia is effective in low-weight infants undergoing major surgery. The trachea may be extubated immediately after surgery. Attention should be paid to the unique anatomical, physiological, and pharmacological aspects. The patients should be monitored carefully for pain, respiratory failure, and meningitis (an extremely rare complication).
Children with ureteropelvic junction obstruction and CV received a delayed surgical treatment and showed a greater reduction in differential renal function preoperatively, in contrast to patients without CV. Our data show that CV is a risk factor for deterioration of renal function in children with hydronephrosis and we advocate for an early pyeloplasty in these children, especially if they have a high-grade dilatation and equivocal washout patterns in diuretic renographies. Further prospective studies are necessary in order to understand the natural history of CV and to reveal the importance of the crossing lower pole vessel as a structural anomaly lacking maturation.
Uncomplicated colonic atresia can be managed by primary repair with little morbidity.
Large vascularized PF to closure RTF is a highly effective and physiologic method for preventing second recurrences.
Despite the similarity in the severity and characteristics of the intraabdominal injuries in 1998-2000 and in 2001-2004, the proportion of children treated conservatively increased over time, concomitant with a significant drop in inpatient mortality. We attribute this shift over a relatively short interval to increased experience and greater acceptance of conservative management in this setting.
LARP is safe in treating UPJ obstruction in infants. It is recommended especially in small babies where laparoscopic pyeloplasty is difficult.
Anterior urethral valves are rare lesions that may create problems at different stages. Some AUVs may result from the obstruction distal lip of a ruptured syringocele. Improvements in endoscopic equipment allow for minimally invasive transurethral resection. Large diverticula are best managed with open diverticulectomy and reconstruction. In newborns with severe altered urinary tract drainage, particularly in low birth-weight infant, a vesicostomy may be necessary.
Diaphragmatic injuries in children are rare. They are usually associated with other severe injuries; however, isolated diaphragmatic injuries occur more frequently in children than adults. A high index of clinical suspicion supported by prompt radiological tests is needed to diagnose these injuries in patients who otherwise have no associated grievous injuries.
The results, we obtained with the Sri Paran technique are extremely encouraging. Yet, randomized studies are required to prove these preliminary data.
Simultaneous assessment of nerve cells, nerve fibers and AChE activity is important in the evaluation of the innervation of the bowel segment proximal to the aganglionic zone. The method described is feasible and can be adapted to older children and adults with larger bowels. These results point out the importance of assessing nerve fibers in intraoperative biopsies during pull-through procedures to prevent uncomplete surgical bowel resection.
In the fetal rabbit models of CDH, pulmonary hypoplasia is the most significant pathological feature. Iatrogenic gastroschisis does not improve pulmonary maturation due to the active growth of the liver that herniates into the thoracic cavity.
A women's sexual response may differ from current conceptualizations.
A sexual history should be included in routine health assessments. Information specific to contextual and relational factors is particularly important for women.
Voice simulation assists the novice nurse in developing intellectual empathy.
Effective measures should be provided to prevent falls in psychiatric wards. A prospective study exploring predictors of falls is warranted.
The sedating tricyclics, the serotonin-2A receptor antagonist/serotonin-reuptake inhibitor antidepressants, and the atypical antidepressants can improve sleep and return sleep architecture to its restorative function. The serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors and selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors, with the possible exception of escitalopram, derange sleep architecture and decrease restorative sleep.
Although most antidepressants cause sedation, not all antidepressants are equal in their effects on producing restorative sleep.
Future educational programs should bring together written clinical guidelines, education on ethical and legal issues, and the staff's support aspect.
Education and clinical supervision is required to address negative clinician attitudes.
The systematic use of these instruments in nursing and in the context of primary health care could favor the early detection of depression.
A reasonable, but limited, range of loads was available.
Motor control deficits were evident in both the paretic and the nonparetic arms after stroke when forward reaching was resisted with viscous, elastic, or mass loads. The paretic arm responded with higher muscle activation and co-contraction levels across all load conditions than the matched control arm. Smaller increases in muscle activation and co-contraction levels that varied with load type were observed in the nonparetic arm. On the basis of the response of the nonparetic arm, this study provides preliminary evidence suggesting that viscous loads elicited strong muscle activation with minimal co-contraction. Further intervention studies are needed to determine whether viscous loads are preferable for poststroke resistive exercise programs.
The ST, performed with the nonparetic leg as the stepping leg, is a valid measure of paretic-limb loading during stroke recovery. Of the clinical measures tested, the ST correlated most strongly with the force platform measures.
The use of a nonvalidated clinical prediction rule to diagnose cervical radiculopathy and the lack of a control group without treatment were limitations of this study.
The results suggest that the addition of mechanical cervical traction to a multimodal treatment program of manual therapy and exercise yields no significant additional benefit to pain, function, or disability in patients with cervical radiculopathy.
The accurate identification of spasticity is important not only for assessment but also for the selection of appropriate treatments after stroke.
This study was limited by sample size, lack of a control or placebo group, and follow-up period.
Participants diagnosed with SAIS showed greater reduction in pain and improvement in articular movement functionality and muscle strength of the affected shoulder after 10 treatment sessions of HILT than did participants receiving US therapy over a period of 2 consecutive weeks.
These results apply to children who have spina bifida and are at least community ambulatory.
The (.)Vo(2)peak measured during an incremental treadmill test seems to reflect the true (.)Vo(2)max in children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory, validating the use of a treadmill test for these children. When confirmation of maximal effort is needed, the addition of supramaximal testing of children with disability is an easy and well-tolerated method.
The described infrared heating system meets the utilitarian requirements of a heating system for plant physiology studies in that the elevated temperature can be accurately, precisely, and reliably controlled with minimal perturbation of other environmental factors.
The importance of good patient selection is becoming increasingly appreciated as a predictor of good outcomes following mastectomy and reconstruction. There are many variables that should be considered when making these decisions. Patient variables include breast characteristics, age, body habitus, comorbidities, and expectations. Oncological variables include tumor size, cancer stage, and perioperative radiation. This article is structured to review the variables that are relevant when deciding upon a particular reconstructive option for a particular patient.
The delivery of noninvasive focused ultrasonic energy has been validated and supported by the basic and preclinical data presented. Future studies will investigate various treatment regimens for improved body-contouring results.
The overriding goal of reconstructive breast surgery is to satisfy the patient with respect to her own self-image and expectations. Ultimately, individualized selection of a reconstructive technique for each patient will be a predominant factor in achieving a reconstructive success. The authors reviewed their institutional experience with postmastectomy reconstruction over the past 2 years and discuss indications, contraindications, advantages, and disadvantages of autogenous tissue and prosthetic breast reconstruction.
In the long term, TRAM patients, compared with expander/implant patients, appear to have significantly greater aesthetic satisfaction. These long-term data have important implications for women's health in the survivorship period and will help women navigate the complex decision-making process of breast reconstruction.
The oncoplastic reduction technique remains safe and effective, without significantly affecting postoperative surveillance. Mammographic findings were similar to those observed in patients with breast conservation therapy alone, and sensitivity was not affected. It takes longer to achieve mammographic stability and more patients in the oncoplastic group will require additional diagnostic testing.
This study shows that there are definitive differences in vascular territory based on flap type. The sequences of images also allow us to reappraise the classic Hartrampf zones of perfusion.
Of the relatively few studies that exist regarding the cosmetic satisfaction of patients following breast conservation therapy, several indicate significant dissatisfaction in many patients. Breast conservation often results in some of the most challenging and complex reconstructive problems. Indeed, even defining the problem or analyzing the defect can be difficult for the junior surgeon. For the more seasoned reconstructive surgeon, analyzing the problem and applying solutions may be less difficult, but clearly communicating the defects typically seen after an aggressive lumpectomy and radiotherapy can be difficult, especially with trainees or junior surgeons. The goal of this article, the third in a four-part series, is to provide a template for the analysis and surgical reconstruction of defects resulting from breast conservation therapy utilizing a systematic three-step method. Part I of this series described the three main anatomical features of the breast--the footprint, the conus of the breast, and the skin envelope--and how they interact. By systematically analyzing the breast with this three-step method, a "problem list" based in specific anatomic traits of the breast can be generated, allowing the surgeon to then generate an appropriate surgical plan for reconstruction. Surgical approaches based on the percentage of breast parenchyma resected are suggested, with a focus on glandular rearrangement, breast reduction techniques, and locoregional flaps. The three-step method of breast analysis, evaluating the anatomical deformation of the breast footprint, conus, and skin envelope, remains the fundamental "fall-back" principle of this approach.
These findings suggest that exposure of adipose-derived stromal cells to ultrasound energy during tissue harvest by means of third-generation ultrasound-assisted lipoaspiration does not impart a negative consequence toward their proliferative capacity or osteogenic potential. Thus, the cells harvested using third-generation ultrasound-assisted lipoaspiration are comparable to those obtained by means of suction-assisted lipoaspiration for use in the study of osteogenic differentiation and skeletal tissue engineering.
The authors have developed a murine model with which to study the fate of injected lipoaspirate. There is a high level of persistence of the grafted human fat, with minimal inflammatory reaction. The fat is viable and vascularized, demonstrating human-derived vessels in a mouse model. This model provides a platform for studying the populations of progenitor cells known to reside in lipoaspirate.
The use of AlloDerm to partially enclose implants effectively prevented formation of a capsule in areas where AlloDerm contacted the implant at 10 weeks. Long-term studies will be required to determine whether this is a durable result that can be reproduced in humans.
The authors' results suggest that skin stretching may alter cell physiology by stimulating neuropeptide expression, and that cyclical mechanical force may be more effectively stimulating mechanosensitive nociceptors or mechanoreceptors (mechanosensors) on cells.
This thin flap is easy and quick to harvest, has a reliable pedicle, and has minimal donor-site morbidity. It is now the authors' flap of choice for many common head and neck reconstructive problems. Early experience using the supraclavicular artery island flap suggests that it is an excellent flap option for head and neck oncologic disease patients.
Single-stage facial reanimation with a latissimus dorsi flap achieved morphofunctional results similar to those obtained with the classic two-stage technique. In addition, the authors were able to reduce the morbidity associated with treatment and the time required for recovery.
Liposuction and lipoinjection as sole or combined procedures are safe methods for the pediatric population. They are well tolerated, with a low rate of complications and satisfactory aesthetic results.
Hemipelvectomy is associated with high wound morbidity. When the hemipelvectomy flap has a musculocutaneous design, hernias are exceedingly rare. Although immediate reconstruction is accomplished with a hemipelvectomy flap in the vast majority of cases, secondary reconstructions are often required for management of wound complications. For large defects, a contralateral inferiorly based rectus abdominis muscle or musculocutaneous flap is the reconstruction of choice. The rectus abdominis muscle should therefore always be preserved in hemipelvectomy patients by careful preoperative planning, especially when creation of an ostomy is considered.
Closure using the absorbable dermal stapler can be performed significantly faster than standard suture closure techniques, allowing for a more cost-effective incisional closure with equivalent cosmetic results.
Marjolin's ulcer is a rare and aggressive cutaneous malignancy that arises on previously traumatized and chronically inflamed skin, especially after burns. This clinical condition was first described by Marjolin in 1828. The term "Marjolin's ulcer" has been generally accepted to refer to a long-term malignant complication of the scars resulting from burns. However, vaccination, snake bites, osteomyelitis, pilonidal abscesses, pressure sores, and venous stasis may also induce this tumor. Clinically, reports suggest that atrophic and unstable scars tend to develop into cancer. Various etiological factors have been implicated in the condition, including toxins released from damaged tissues, immunologic factors, cocarcinogens, and miscellaneous factors such as irritation, poor lymphatic regeneration, antibodies, mutations, and local toxins. The incidence of burn scars undergoing malignant transformation has been reported to be 0.77 to 2 percent. All parts of the body can be affected, but the extremities and the scalp are most frequently affected. There are two variants: acute and chronic. In the former, the carcinoma occurs within 1 year of the injury. The chronic form is more frequent and malignancy tends to develop slowly, with an average time to malignant transformation of 35 years. Although many different cell types can be seen in these lesions, the major histological type is squamous cell carcinoma. Marjolin's ulcers are generally considered as very aggressive tumors with a higher rate of regional metastases; radical excision is the treatment of choice, but there is no consensus on lymph node dissection. Marjolin's ulcer can be insidious and often leads to a poor prognosis, and deaths from Marjolin's ulcer are not uncommon. Meticulous wound care is a crucial step in prevention of these lesions.
The anterolateral thigh flap with vascularized fascia lata provides a reliable fascial component for single-stage reconstruction of complex soft-tissue defects.
The authors could show that the number of septocutaneous perforators for the tensor fasciae latae flap is more constant and that their diameter is greater than that of musculocutaneous perforators. The location of these perforators on a line extending from the ilium to the greater trochanter facilitates planning and dissection of a flap.
Vascular function is abnormal in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon. Although its mechanism is unknown, Botox yielded a distinct improvement in perfusion and reduction in pain in patients failing conservative management. Continued research may lead to more specific and reliable treatment for Raynaud's patients.
Botulinum toxin injection statistically significantly improves the results of flexor tendon repair. The authors have termed this technique "chemoprotection" of flexor tendon repairs.
Ulnar artery reconstruction in the setting of hypothenar hammer syndrome results in immediate and long-term improvement of commonly used objective and subjective measurements of digital blood flow. Interestingly, long-term follow-up demonstrates superior endpoints in those reconstructions that occluded. A proposed mechanism to explain this phenomenon is presented.
At present, the literature dedicated to closed mallet thumb injury offers conflicting evidence between conservative and operative approaches. Although conservative treatment is often successful, retraction of the extensor pollicis tendon may lead to improper reattachment and continued deformity. This discussion and case report serve to highlight the use of magnetic resonance imaging as an adjunct in selecting the proper treatment strategy for this injury at initial presentation.
The beneficial effects of the Harmonic blade are obvious objectively and subjectively to both the surgeon and the patients. Understanding the key technical details involved with its use will improve the learning curve for the surgeon as this technology becomes an asset in face lifting.
This preliminary study indicates that patients are highly concerned about scarring following routine surgery, with most patients valuing any improvement in scarring. These data also show that there are disparities in patient-clinician communication regarding expectations following surgery.
If volume loss is a significant component of facial aging, it becomes important for the clinician to know the precise anatomy of the subcutaneous tissue. Greater precision is possible in rejuvenating specific characteristics of aging. Augmentation at the vermilion cutaneous junction defines the vermilion border and improves perioral rhytides. Deep fat augmentation of the vermilion restores volume, shape, and lip eversion. Augmentation of submuscular fat beneath the cutaneous lip improves the convex shape. Submentalis fat augmentation specifically reduces the depth of the labiomental hollow. These findings are in agreement with previous observations that volume loss of deep fat--temporal, buccal, and sub-orbicularis oculi fat --contributes to the aging process. Knowledge of this anatomy and site-specific augmentation make it possible for the clinician to approach perioral rejuvenation in an algorithmic fashion.
Fractional photothermolysis represents a breakthrough in laser treatment for a wide array of skin problems. The safety profile has been improved over conventional ablative lasers, and the range of skin types and treatment areas have been expanded. Unlike full-surface flat beam resurfacing, fractional resurfacing damages specific microtreatment zones within the target area. Nonablative fractionals do not achieve results similar to those of the fractional ablative lasers, but certain conditions may respond better to nonablative fractional treatments. More data are needed on the comparative effects of the various types of lasers and their best indications.
Some weak evidence exists that supports "wet dressings." To determine the best split-thickness skin graft donor-site dressing, more methodologically sound randomized controlled trials are needed. Trials with parallel economic evaluations should be undertaken to answer this question.
: To successfully treat these complex lesions, the plastic surgeon must understand the disease process, the natural history and complications, and the options for treatment.
The reconstruction of microtia continues to represent one of the more challenging plastic surgery procedures. The limitations of the reconstruction are partly inherent in the soft-tissue deficiencies present in increasing degrees from large conchal remnant microtia, to lobular microtia, to the displaced remnant in auricular dystopia, and partly because of the high level of technical expertise required. After a brief review of the history of ear reconstruction in general and microtia specifically, issues related to the transition in the popularity from techniques involving three or more stages (Tanzer and Brent) to the current popularity of two-stage procedures (Nagata, Firmin, and Park) are discussed in detail. Each of the popular procedures is viewed in relation to timing of the reconstruction, procedure planning, and how both the soft tissues and framework construction are handled, in each of the stages. The most significant differences include whether the autogenous cartilage framework is constructed with or without the tragal construct (for the lobular-type microtia), whether or not the lobule is rotated in the first-stage reconstruction, whether an additional cartilage block is placed behind the framework for added ear projection, and how that added block is covered (choice of fascia flap and skin graft). Each of the techniques has to be varied in reconstruction of auricular dystopia in light of the associated skeletal and soft-tissue hypoplasia. In this article, the author demonstrates that although there may be significant advantages to the two-stage reconstructions of Nagata and Firmin, some may feel that the larger amount of cartilage harvested, the later optimal age for beginning the reconstruction, the additional scalp scars engendered by using the temporoparietal fascia flap in the second-stage elevation of the framework, and even the exchange of lobule tissue (and ability to later pierce ears) to obtain better coverage of the concha and tragus are unacceptable. Having gained experience with each of the varied approaches and having modified them when unusual variations in deformities have required it, the author discusses his current preferences. Clearly, this author feels that there may be significant advantages to delaying the reconstruction to age 10 years or older, yet experience gained over the past 25 years would seem to indicate that as in all other aspects of plastic and reconstructive surgery one must never be wed to a single approach, and experience and flexibility are essential in obtaining the optimal outcome in all variations of the deformity.
Disorders of the female breast in the pediatric age group are a relatively common finding; however, there is limited information in the current literature. The plastic surgeon treating these patients is faced with a wide range of reconstructive problems. By understanding the various breast disorders, the plastic surgeon can better diagnose and treat this patient population appropriately.
Gynecomastia, or persistent enlargement of the male breast, is a common occurrence during early sexual development. Typically, two types of tissue can be identified during this period of growth. Initially, a dense fibrous growth of supporting stroma and breast tissue forms directly under the areola, creating a prominent mass effect. A supporting fibrofatty stroma variably develops around the periphery of the breast, particularly as the body mass index of the patient increases. Treatment is directed at both of these tissue types and includes liposuction contouring along with direct excision of the fibrous subareolar tissue. Resection of redundant skin is performed as needed either immediately or in a delayed fashion. These various modalities can be used either alone or in combination to restore a normal chest wall contour to affected individuals, thus easing the emotional burden that is associated with the condition.
The authors believe that knowledge of proper classification is not just their personal preference but a functional necessity to aid in the treatment of these complex and large lesions. Proper use of the biological classification is inherent to understanding and treating these common vascular lesions optimally.
Lasers play a vital role as an adjunctive therapy or definitive therapy in many of the authors' pediatric patients. Anyone treating such patients should be well aware of lasers as a valuable tool.
Congenital and developmental eyelid abnormalities are among the most challenging problems encountered by the reconstructive surgeon. Eyelid abnormalities in children may present at birth as a result of abnormal embryogenesis (congenital) or they may occur at later stages as the child matures (developmental). These eyelid abnormalities include entropion, ectropion, ptosis, lid retraction, epicanthal folds, blepharophimosis, colobomas, cryptophthalmos, and canthal dystopias. Additional considerations include social factors regarding the child's self-awareness of their deformities, and specific anesthetic concerns related to their pediatric problems, which are often multisystem in nature. Current methods for evaluation and medical and surgical management are reviewed for each entity.
This article discusses common pediatric skin and subcutaneous lesions grouped into three categories: cysts, pits, and tumors. Vascular malformations and hemangiomas are covered elsewhere in this supplement and are not discussed here. In addition, only benign tumors that typically present to the plastic surgeon are mentioned. In a minority of cases, further investigation, in the form of imaging or biopsy, will be required to establish the diagnosis and allow appropriate management. In this article, the authors concentrate on the relevant information required to triage and treat these conditions.
Appropriately selected reconstructive techniques are essential to optimize function, appearance, and quality of life in pediatric burn survivors.
Congenital differences of the upper limb occur in approximately 0.16 to 0.18 percent of live births. These patients provide a unique challenge for the reconstructive hand surgeon. The correct and timely diagnosis of hand and upper limb congenital differences will lead to appropriate care and rehabilitation. The International Federation of Societies for Surgery of the Hand has classified congenital upper limb differences based on abnormalities of embryogenesis: failure of formation of parts, failure of differentiation of parts, duplication, overgrowth, undergrowth, constriction ring syndrome, and general skeletal abnormalities. This classification scheme is used as a basis for discussion of the most common upper limb anomalies. Both surgical and nonsurgical treatments are discussed, as is appropriate timing of intervention.
In this article, the authors review their approach to evaluation, operative management, and reconstructive technique. Brachial plexus injuries in the newborn are usually managed nonoperatively. The timing and indications for primary surgery vary significantly between institutions. The motor examination is used to determine which infants would benefit from operative management. Patients are selected based on established criteria, such as the Toronto Test Score, applied at age 3 months. However, some cases are initially less clear, and we may recommend delaying operative management until age 6 months or as late as age 9 months if the child fails the cookie test. Neuroma excision, sural nerve grafting, and nerve transfers are performed when indicated by clinical motor examination. The use of selective motor nerve transfers, either in combination with nerve grafting or alone, has allowed nerve coaptations to be performed closer to the neuromuscular junction, which may further improve regeneration. Children undergoing primary surgery experience low rates of perioperative morbidity, and they experience gains in motor function until 3 or 4 years postoperatively, at which point recovery stabilizes.
The results provided baseline information about the standard of record-keeping in NHS dental practices in Worcestershire. The collaborative nature of the audit enabled dissemination of individual results to participants, to facilitate comparison (anonymously) against their peers. The audit provided impetus for the Primary Care Trust (PCT) to arrange postgraduate education on record-keeping and to raise awareness among local dentists about record-keeping. The subsequent report to dentists explored the record-keeping standards expected during practice inspections undertaken by the Dental Reference Service. Worcestershire PCT's method of collaborative dental audit could potentially replace the previous national programme of dental audit, formerly coordinated locally.
The survey highlighted an increased prevalence of oral health impacts in this special needs group. In addition to physical factors, psychosocial factors must be considered, particularly with regard to appearance and psychological disability and discomfort, in the development of services.
It was concluded that there was a high prevalence of head and orofacial injuries among the schoolboy cricketers but relatively few dental injuries. The distribution of types of head, face and dental injury in England and Australia were similar.
At present, the future is more uncertain for new dental graduates than in the past. The dental profession needs to become more aware of the pressures that graduates are facing and further research is needed to investigate them and the effects that they are having on the future of dentistry.
Ufi Gel P underwent less hardness and colour change after accelerated ageing than Trusoft. On the other hand, the use of Trusoft may be preferable in cases where initial softness is a major consideration, such as when relining an immediate denture after implant surgery.
A possible association could exist between some genotypes in TAAR6 and response to aripiprazole. However, several limitations characterize the present work, such as small sample size, the finding related to a single scale and the possibility of false positive findings, thus further investigation is required.
Our findings confirm the significant economic burden of relapse, and show such costs were mainly due to hospital stay. Nevertheless, the use of UK unit costs requires caution when interpreting this costing in the context of a specific country, as resource use and their associated costs will differ by country.
Our results suggest that rs2234693 in ESR1 may play a role in the pathophysiology of Japanese methamphetamine induced psychosis patients.
We detected an association between only one marker (rs6465084) in GRM3 and Japanese MDD patients. However, because we did not perform an association analysis based on LD and a mutation scan of GRM3, a replication study using a larger sample and based on LD may be required for conclusive results.
These findings suggested that the smaller volume of the amygdala may be associated with anxiety in panic disorder. Of note, the smaller subregion in the amygdala estimated on VBM could correspond to the corticomedial nuclear group including the central nucleus, which may play a crucial role in panic attack.
The SRDL scale may be useful for assessing living skills in the daily life of people with schizophrenia.
Identification of an association between evening typology and depressive symptoms in healthy samples may be useful in further investigation of circadian typology and the course of depressive disease.
The BCIS-J is a reliable and valid instrument to measure cognitive aspects of insight and appears to complement clinical insight scales.
SP in the plasma and CSF of patients exhibited a close correlation with neural damage and the incidence of PSD. This study also suggested that anterior hemispheric strokes may play a significant role in development of PSD.
Our study suggests that thyroid hormones may have an impact on severity and efficacy of antidepressant treatment. However, our result should be considered with caution and merely as a suggestion due to some methodological limitations. Hence further studies are required to better ascertain the role of thyroid hormones in depression after menopause.
In this study, J-CDS showed good reliability and validity. The best cut-off point, when we use this for distinguishing individuals with depersonalization disorder from individuals without psychiatric disorders, is 60 points.
Perospirone was as effective as risperidone against positive and negative symptoms in patients with schizophrenia. Both antipsychotic agents were equally well-tolerated.
Psychiatric beds in general hospitals do not necessarily function for medical comorbidities in psychiatric patients, especially in severe and emergency cases. Not only the quantity but also the quality of psychiatric wards in general hospitals should be reconsidered.
The observed objective activity levels in each group reflect the degree to which the boys are able to tolerate changes in situations. Objective measurement of activity levels may be useful to differentiate hyperactivity in children with ADHD from that in children without ADHD.
A psychiatrist's judgment regarding discharge is a comprehensive decision that takes into account psychiatric symptoms, social functioning, and age. Such a judgment could also affect a patient's own attitude toward discharge.
Although no significant metabolic alterations exist in female patients with drug-nave first-episode MDD as evaluated on (1)H-MRS, an increase in Ino/Cr was observed following 8-week antidepressant treatment. These findings give rise to the possibility that non-neuronal cells, particularly glial cells that are probably damaged, play a role in the action of antidepressant treatment.
Multi-dimensional factors were able to discriminate between those adolescents with and without Internet addiction. It is suggested that parents and health and educational professionals monitor the Internet-using behaviors of adolescents who have the factors discriminating for Internet addiction identified in the present study.
Chronic fatigue syndrome patients have a relatively high prevalence of comorbid psychiatric disorders, especially major depressive disorders. The outcomes of chronic fatigue syndrome and psychiatric disorders are independent. Therefore treatment of comorbid psychiatric disorders is necessary in addition to the medical treatment given for chronic fatigue syndrome.
The presence of specific neuropsychiatric symptoms (mood and psychosis symptoms) was associated with changes in the QOL of AD patients during the follow-up period.
The present results showed that OSAS can be detected at a remarkably higher rate by considering appropriate OSAS risk factors in mood disorder patients, and suggested that there is a high rate of undetected and therefore untreated OSAS among mood disorder patients.
The strongest predictor of poor cognitive performance in depression was psychiatric comorbidity. The assessment and treatment of cognitive dysfunction in depression should consider the relative impact of psychiatric comorbidity.
Taiwanese patients with mood and anxiety disorders experience high cardiovascular morbidity, especially patients with anxiety disorders. Age acted as an important modifier variable that influenced the relationship between mood, anxiety disorder and CVD. This study highlights the need for future research in different age groups, in order to elucidate the causality and the trajectory of developing CVD among patients with mental disorders.
Self-harm with a sharp object was prevalent among pre-adolescents and adolescents and was associated with depressive and dissociative tendencies.
It is possible that genetic variants of the NPY1R gene affect the NPY-NPY receptor type Y1 signaling system in the brain, which may result in susceptibility to methamphetamine dependence or the development of methamphetamine psychosis, but the present findings need to be confirmed on replication.
The rational desire to hasten death may call for unconventional psychiatric responses. The author discusses the error of failing to provide life-saving medical treatment over the objection of someone who has attempted suicide and the error of trying to prevent rational persons suffering from incurable illness from hastening their death.
Despite the high incidence of severe consequences of TBI, there are scarce empirical data to guide psychiatric treatment. Some approaches that have been helpful include cognitive and behavioral therapy and pharmacologic treatment. The authors list specific research recommendations that could further identify useful therapeutic interventions.
The findings of this open-label, randomized clinical investigation suggest that postoperative sedation with dexmedetomidine was associated with significantly lower rates of postoperative delirium and lower care costs.
Improving the recognition of undiagnosed delirium may lead to sustainable and successful fall prevention programs. Detection of impairments in mental status can assist staff to create individualized patient care plans. Knowledge about which patients are at risk for injury from delirium and falls can lead to improvements in patient safety, functioning, and quality of life.
These preliminary results based on subgroup analysis suggest that a multifaceted nurse-led intervention may prevent the occurrence of major depression in complex medically ill patients and reduce depressive symptoms in diabetes outpatients.
Delirium and increased delirium durations are significantly associated with higher mortality.
A variety of mood disorders are seen in FTD, requiring careful attention to differential diagnosis. FTD should be included in the differential diagnosis during the evaluation of older patients with mood abnormalities.
The data suggest that instruments measuring delirium severity and psychomotor features provide important prognostic information and should be integrated into the assessment of delirium.
The DRS-R-98 has good construct validity in this Latino population.
These results corroborate anecdotal clinical observations. The authors suggest future research initiatives and best practices to reduce parental distress.
Innovative approaches are needed to assess and treat gynecology patients with comorbid pain and depression, given the degree of overlap between them.
MRKH has a lasting negative impact on affected women's level of psychological distress and self-esteem.
Integrated medication management and psychotherapy by a single psychiatrist-provider with relevant medical understanding can achieve a better alliance between patient and physician and, thus, improved outcomes.
Failure to recognize this patient's syndrome as a form of catatonia could have had severe, even life-threatening, consequences. The use of neuroleptic medications in cases of delirium/mania with catatonic signs may result in marked clinical deterioration, whereas high-dose lorazepam can ameliorate catatonic signs.
Catatonia may result from a wide variety of etiologies. Catatonia due to benzodiazepine-withdrawal is a rare but serious condition that may be difficult to distinguish from other causes of catatonia. The mechanism by which catatonia may be precipitated by benzodiazepine-withdrawal is unknown, but likely involves a rapid decrease in GABA transmission in the central nervous system.
There are reports of neuropsychiatric side effects with valacyclovir's structural analogs in elderly patients with renal dysfunction. Clinicians should be aware that valacyclovir may induce psychosis with manic presentation in young, healthy patients without a psychiatric history.
As this case report shows, drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia may present another possible mechanism for bleeding in SSRI-treated patients.
Psychological and social indices of quality of life indicate prevalent problems among family caregivers who have experienced high strain from their caregiving responsibilities. Public health programs for disabled individuals should include assessments of strain on family caregivers and support services for those who report high levels of caregiving strain.
Both component scores showed adequate reliability and validity with the 2003-2004 MEPS and should be suitable for use in a variety of proposes within this database.
Non-Type D patients low on positive affect and Type D patients report lower levels of health status in CHF, compared with non-Type D patients with high positive affect. Future studies need to determine whether lack of positive affect is associated with impaired clinical outcome.
Depressive and anxiety symptoms as two psychological variables have an additional impact on domain-specific life satisfaction. Further investigation is needed regarding the impact of psychological variables on domain-specific life satisfaction.
These findings show that whether the primary long-term condition is presenting as physical or as mental disorder, the practitioner should ensure that the full range of physical, mental and social problems is assessed and treated.
Several categories of the ICF were linked to the items of the SS-QOL, with acceptable levels of agreement. These categories were specific and meaningful for stroke subjects, since the majority of the identified concepts were included in the comprehensive ICF core set for stroke. The findings indicated that the ICF provided a useful framework for the conceptual understanding of the SS-QOL, which demonstrated multiple representations of the ICF categories and covered a broad range of the ICF components that were meaningful for the stroke subjects.
EQ-5D preference scores can be predicted accurately from either the PROMIS global items or selected domain banks. Application of the derived regression model allows the estimation of health preference scores from the PROMIS health measures for use in economic evaluations.
All SF-36 HRQoL scores were significantly lower among the NET patients when compared with the general population. Assistance from health personnel to NET patients should focus on those domains.
This study provides preliminary evidence for the validity of current measures of HRQOL, which may inherently take into account patients' domain preferences.
The SEIQoL-DW appears to be a feasible and valid instrument. The lack of association between the Index score and health, functional status, demographic and clinical parameters may be explained by the instrument's focus on global QoL and by that of the idiographic measurement approach reflecting the capacity of a patient to value domains other than health in life, despite having health problems. Nevertheless, continued psychometric evaluation in large populations with a longitudinal design is recommended.
The FAMCARE-P16 may be used to assess satisfaction with outpatient palliative care interventions of patients with advanced stage cancer in both clinical settings and prospective trials.
The results generally support the use of the SF-36 for general population research among Turkish and Moroccan ethnic minorities in the Netherlands. Additional studies are needed to confirm the psychometrics of the questionnaire when used among these populations in other Western European countries.
Participants with comorbid diabetes and hypertension had worse HRQoL. The relationships between HRQoL and different types of help seeking varied depending on the comorbidity status of the respondents.
TLR8-mediated neutrophilic responses were markedly potentiated by oxidative stress, and the potentiation was mediated by enhanced NF-kB activation. These results suggest that oxidative stress might potentiate the neutrophilic inflammation during viral infection.
The results offer good evidence of the cross-cultural validity of the PHLOC scales, an instrument that can be useful in interventions with families by the health care practitioners to prevent neglectful childrearing practices.
A mixed pattern of fat globules is more frequently observed in CHC, but macrovesicular steatosis is associated with a higher stage of fibrosis. Morphometry is recommended as one of the important tools for the follow-up of HCV-infected patients. Whether an accurate assessment of fat globule size by morphometry is preferred for the evaluation of patients before and after the antiviral therapy needs further research.
Corrosive injury is still a major pediatric emergency among young children. It carries a major risk of complications (mainly stricture) and requires standardized management based on evidence-based medicine.
According to our findings, survival is significantly related to histological differentiation of tumor and distant metastasis in colorectal cancer patients and only to distant metastasis in gastric cancer patients.
Self-assessment of postoperative ER by the patients after esophagectomy for malignant disease demonstrates that undesirable symptoms are frequently present at short- and long-term follow-ups. Short- and long-term functional outcome is affected by the type of reconstruction after esophagectomy. Results of this study suggest that colon graft in ER is significantly advantageous compared with other methods because of the ability of patients to gain weight and avoid developing postoperative reflux.
Forty-nine A alleles and AA genotype are associated with CD susceptibility in Tunisians. Other genes involved in the T-cell regulation remain strong candidates for IBD susceptibility and require further investigation.
This manuscript reports the liver size in Saudi children and adolescents. The data should help physicians in the interpretation of liver size determined by physical examination of children and adolescents.
LA using fallope rings is a safe, simple, easy-to-learn, and economically viable method.
The prevalence of H. pylori among the school children in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, is relatively low compared with developing countries. The prevalence was found to be higher among the younger age group. Further, there was a significant relation between H. pylori infection and RAP among the school students.
Milder hepatotoxic effects are seen in rats administered amiodarone and vitamin E simultaneously suggesting that vitamin-E may play a role in amelioration of the effects of amiodarone.
From the current study, it is obviously possible to diagnose a large proportion of patients with CD in a gastroenterology outpatient clinic. The data revealed a strikingly increased incidence of CD in a mainly young Saudi population in the past few years.
The inflammatory markers, i.e., TLC, CRP and neutrophil count can be helpful in the diagnosis when measured together as this increases their specificity and positive predictive value.
In endemic countries, ascariasis should be suspected in patients with biliary disease, especially if a cholecystectomy or sphincterotomy has been performed in the past. Most of the patients respond to conservative management.
The mild pathology and antral-predominant gastritis help explain the low cancer rate in Iraq.
Transcystic injection under pressure with distal clamping demonstrates the leak sites. Suturing them prevents the postoperative bile leak.
We identified physical activity and the intake of meat and whole-grain products as prime candidates for lifestyle interventions in northern Sweden.
Good nutritional status is important for the physical function of elderly people, even after controlling for possible confounders. Performance tests indicated a higher degree of functional impairment than that observed by self-reported estimation.
Although socioeconomic differences in BMI were observed, these inequalities did not appear to be increasing, except among young women. Persons with a low initial BMI increased more in weight than persons with a high initial BMI. Exercise behaviour appeared to be an important factor for maintaining, or avoiding heavy increase in, BMI.
A health-related physical education programme based on developing individual responsibility through self-planned out-of-school activity can provide pupils with substantially more physical activity during the day (and thus improve cardiorespiratory fitness) when it is based on self-determined and individualized objectives.
An additive random effects model appears to adequately generate a Danish set of EQ-5D health state preferences. The model has high explanatory power and produces consistent and significant parameters for EQ-5D dimensions and levels. It is recommended that this value set be used in Danish cost-utility studies using EQ-5D.
The sex of the responding parent was the only sociodemographic factor that was associated with both parental attitudes and behaviour. Fathers were more likely than mothers to have a non-restrictive attitude. The fathers also reported to a greater extent than mothers that children had been drinking or tasting alcohol at home.
Abdominal obesity in current snuff users is limited to former smokers. The remaining effect of previous smoking has to be considered in future studies on obesity and related disorders in snuff users. Counselling among people who substitute snuff for smoking should include measures to prevent weight gain.
Healthcare is under pressure to increase effectiveness, which is manifested by rhetoric presentations of the term in the political-administrative decision-making in specialized healthcare. There is a need for focused collection and systematic follow-up of easily available effectiveness information in healthcare.
Norwegian hospital doctors enjoy a higher level of life and job satisfaction than German hospital doctors. The most likely reasons for this are more acceptable work hours, salary and control over clinical work in Norway.
The calculated mean values for the EQ-5D index score may be used as reference values for comparative purposes in future Danish population health and evaluative studies.
This study shows that snus use has had a profound effect on smoking prevalence and LCMRs among Swedish men. While it cannot be proven that snus would have the same effect in other EU countries, the potential reduction in smoking-attributable deaths is considerable.
Overall, mortality rates were similar across geographical areas with low and with high Sami population density. However, indications of geographical differences in infant mortality should be investigated further.
In spite of its progressive employment and rehabilitation policies, our study revealed considerable and socially differentiated employment consequences of IHD in Sweden. More account needs to be taken of such differential impact in health and social policy development.
Oral antibiotic bowel preparation has a role in the prevention of surgical site infection in the patient undergoing colorectal surgery.
Solid organ recipients seem to be at particular risk for Ck infections; clonal outbreaks may occur in intensive care units.
Sepsis with SMG is in most cases associated with surgical infection. Source control together with directed antibiotic therapy leads to an acceptable outcome. Immunosuppression and significant co-morbidities are common in patients with this type of infection.
The use of MPH in this rat abdominal infection model did not enhance infection. Gelatin matrix was associated with a greater infection rate than MPH. The rapid degradation of MPH may account for these results, making it a good hemostat in the presence of infective sources.
This is the first reported case of abdominal actinomycosis probably attributable to bile spillage during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Patients should be followed for as long as four weeks after discharge to determine the true incidence and risk of ABT-associated PI.
Silver was the most important antimicrobial agent available before the introduction of antibiotics.
There is limited evidence of efficacy of silver in preventing infection of short-term implantable medical devices.
Given the similarity in clinical presentation and CT imaging in patients with neutropenic and non-neutropenic appendicitis, accurate recognition of neutropenic appendicitis rests on a thorough patient history and a high index of suspicion in febrile neutropenic patients.
Neutropenic enterocolitis is a heterogeneous diseazse state with the capacity to affect many areas of the gastrointestinal tract, and disease severity that ranges from mild to fatal. A high index of suspicion is needed for all patients who present with fever and abdominal pain in the setting of neutropenia. Early detection allows a majority of cases to resolve with nonoperative management and supportive care, but surgical intervention is mandatory for peritonitis, bowel perforation, or gastyrointestinal hemorrhage that persists despite correction of coagulopathy.
It is possible to use the MAMS design to initiate and undertake large scale cancer trials. The results from STAMPEDE will not be known for some years but the lessons learned from running a MAMS trial are shared in the hope that other researchers will use this exciting and efficient method to perform further randomised controlled trials.
Results of this finding suggested that the prevalence of PL agenesis as reported in standard anatomy texts is significantly different from our observation in this Yoruba population. The differentiation of PL tendon from flexor carpi radialis is indicative that both muscles may develop from the same muscle group as previously suggested.
Both patients in our study who developed RRD had risk factors for this complication as well as high myopia. Risk factors are discussed in the light of our results and the pooled estimate. Our follow-up time is longer than most. Future case series should calculate rates to allow meaningful comparison of case series.
Non-epithelial breast malignancies are rare cancers with significant mortality rates. Correct diagnosis and avoidance of inappropriate therapies requires a comprehensive triple assessment and a multidisciplinary management approach.
There was no significant difference in the immediate complication rates between the two groups. Although recurrence and chronic groin pain rates are higher with Kugel repair, this was not statistically significant.
Persistent posterior triangle lymphadenopathy in the 16-40 year old age group warrants "Red Flag" referral to rule out serious pathology such as HIV, metastatic cancer or lymphoma. When the ENT examination and haematological work up is negative, we advocate proceeding straight to excision biopsy as the quickest way to obtain a diagnosis, which sometimes comes up with the unexpected as in this rare case of Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease.
Among patients with persistently elevated PSA levels despite previously negative biopsy findings, PSAV did not reliably predict for a diagnosis of prostate cancer nor did it correlate with prostate cancer grade, volume, or location using TTMB.
DCs transduced with the survivin gene induced potent survivin-specific CTL responses in vitro. This suggests that cancer immunotherapy targets for survivin might offer a novel approach to treating various urologic cancers.
Testosterone might induce relaxation in human isolated corpora cavernosa strips by activation of smooth muscle adenosine triphosphate-sensitive K(+) channels. This finding suggests that testosterone, in addition to its known endothelial action, might regulate erectile function locally by its action on the smooth muscle of the human corpus cavernosum.
A high prevalence of U. urealyticum was observed in women with unexplained chronic voiding symptoms. Testing for the presence of U. urealyticum and M. hominis in the urogenital tract could prove valuable for the management of a significant percentage of chronic urinary symptoms in women through appropriate treatment.
The presence of positive surgical margins in the pathologic specimen confers a significant independent risk of reduced recurrence-free survival, DSS, and overall survival. Nevertheless, patients with positive surgical margins will still benefit from a meticulous pelvic lymph node dissection.
The results of this 4-week, double-blind, randomized trial have demonstrated that in Chinese male hypertensive patients with LUTS, low-dose Amlodipine plus terazosin therapy appears to be a safe and effective combination therapy to control both conditions, especially for those with predominant overactive bladder symptoms.
Constitutively activated Akt might prevent the antitumor efficacy of gefitinib in renal cell carcinoma, and the therapeutic effectiveness of gefitinib might be improved by inhibiting Akt activation.
Our findings have shown that sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil relax HCC tissues in a concentration-dependent manner, but the maximal relaxation obtained with tadalafil was significantly lower than that obtained with sildenafil and vardenafil. Moreover, the PDE-5 inhibitors interacted with endogenous and exogenous NO, amplifying its HCC relaxation.
The rate of reported urolithiasis among deployed personnel was lower than that in the general population. The personnel who reported urolithiasis during deployment were slightly older. A personal history or family history of stone disease was significant predictors of urolithiasis in this deployed population.
The erection in Paleolithic art is explicitly represented in almost all the figures defined as unequivocally male that have survived to the present and in many objects of portable art. Circumcision and/or foreskin retraction of the penis are present in most of the works.
Gynecologic examination and prostate assessment were acceptable to TSW. Transvaginal palpation of the prostate is of poor clinical value, yet transvaginal ultrasound allows for proper evaluation of the prostate status.
The results of our study have shown that maintaining the temperature of the urethra with warm irrigation solution during CTURVP probably decreases the incidence of urethral stricture. The temperature in the urethra could be another important factor in stricture formation after CTURVP.
Our data have indicated that &gt; or =14% of all infants hospitalized for UTI have urologic anomalies. Vesicoureteral reflux, obstructive uropathy, and hydronephrosis are common diagnoses. We therefore conclude that infants admitted with a diagnosis of UTI should undergo screening for anatomic abnormalities.
A measurable PSA level or biochemical recurrence was an extraordinarily rare event in our select group of patients with extremely low-risk disease. These results provide compelling evidence that retained benign prostatic elements are an unlikely source of elevated PSA levels in men who have undergone radical prostatectomy.
The anticipation of potential device-specific failures during laparoscopic donor nephrectomy, coupled with knowledge of how to handle failure when it does occur, could improve procedure safety.
The pattern of urinary lithogenic factors in Korean patients with SF has changed with time. Hyperuricosuria has become more prevalent in recent years. We found a high prevalence of hyperuricosuria in men, which might have been due to the increased incidence of obesity in this subgroup.
In this nationally representative sample, the sex distribution of pediatric urolithiasis varied with age, with boys more commonly affected in the first decade of age and girls in the second decade. Although the reason for this unique epidemiologic finding is not readily apparent, additional studies can build on this hypothesis-generating work.
This technique, which combines the improving technologies of robotic surgery, intraoperative laparoscopic ultrasonography, and radiofrequency ablation, might make more surgeons comfortable with the intricacies of laparoscopic suturing and eliminate prolonged warm ischemia times. Overall, this method should result in more patients being able to undergo minimally invasive laparoscopic partial nephrectomy.
The results of our study have shown that routine preoperative renal artery embolization in patients undergoing RNIVCT does not provide any measurable benefit in reducing blood loss or complications and was associated with increased major perioperative complications and mortality.
ESWL is highly effective for treatment of large renal stones in children as a first-line treatment with minimal morbidity. The placement of a stent is not a prerequisite for success of treatment.
The results of our study have shown that ED increases in a nonlinear fashion with age, consistent with the findings of previous reports. Of greater concern, however, given the strong association between ED and cardiovascular disease, was the number of those with ED who lacked a primary care physician.
Postoperative PSA and PSA velocity measurements can be used to distinguish patients with CaP from those with histologic BPH only.
The burden of illness associated with lower urinary tract conditions, including OAB/UI, extend beyond the diagnosed population. The appropriate diagnosis and treatment of symptoms could lead to better clinical, economic, and humanistic outcomes.
The use of alpha-blockers for LUTS was associated with a decreased risk of sexual dysfunction. Improvement in sexual function correlated with the improvement in LUTS more strongly among those using alpha-blockers.
Retrograde access in patients with urinary diversion is feasible and safe. The risk of failed access is increased in patients with ureteral anastomotic stricture. The diagnosis and/or treatment of upper tract urothelial carcinoma and stone disease can be readily performed with retrograde ureteroscopic techniques.
The results of our study have shown that urethral catheter traction diminishes bleeding compared with suturing at the prostatic vesical junction during suprapubic prostatectomy.
We believe that NAC could improve some semen parameters and the oxidative/antioxidant status in patients with male infertility.
LIA + SCB is an effective and better method of anesthesia compared with LIA alone or no-needle jet anesthesia for reducing the pain during vasectomy. Also, no difference was found in the pain levels during anesthesia for the LIA + SCB, LIA, and no-needle anesthesia techniques.
In the present investigation, the metabolic syndrome was associated with prostate cancer risk in African-American men, but not in white men. The prevalence of this syndrome, coupled with the racial disparity in prostate cancer incidence and outcomes after diagnosis, warrant additional investigation.
Flank pain, renal cavitation, urolithiasis, and ureteral stricture formation were significantly more common in the group with suspected UGTB than in those with confirmed UGTB. However, other clinical characteristics did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. In patients with clinical features highly suspicious of UGTB, it appears reasonable to institute anti-TB treatment, despite the lack of a confirmed diagnosis.
With all the advantages of a minimally invasive procedure and preserving therapeutic efficacy, the laparoscopic approach should be considered a standard choice for surgical treatment of CU in symptomatic patients. Care should be taken to diagnose and excise the pathologically narrowed ureteral segment.
The prompt initiation of effective antimicrobial treatment is essential in patients with ESBL-producing E. coli, and empirical decisions must be determined by knowledge of the local distribution of pathogens and their susceptibility.
The vertical DIEP flap is a reliable option for total vaginal reconstruction with consistent results. It spares the rectus abdominus muscle when a muscle flap is not required.
Our experience shows that NOTES transvaginal nephrectomy is technically feasible. Access to the peritoneal cavity should be performed under visual guidance and after insufflation through the umbilicus. Additional experience is needed to better define patient selection criteria and indications for NOTES transvaginal urologic surgery.
All together, our findings showed a surprisingly low prevalence rate of subclade F1 in Brazil and suggest that these isolates originated in Central Africa and subsequently introduced to South America.
The present study demonstrates that the evaluation context may increase the impact of affective reactions and reduce healthy people's ability to use information on the potential benefit of a novel biomedical technology. Regardless of the evaluation context, patients always rely on affective reactions and show an overall preference for the human organ.
We conclude that MHC class I(+) CD1(+) Jalpha18(+) NKT cells promote the survival of rat skin but not rat islet xenografts. These studies implicate different mechanisms for inducing and maintaining islet vs. skin xenograft survival in mice treated with donor antigen and anti-CD154 mAb, and further indicate a role for NKT cells but not NK cells in skin xenograft survival.
Quantitative assays with probes for single copy gene sequences, STRs or sex-determining region will be helpful for demonstrating organ repopulation, although initial lower frequency engraftment of human cells in chimeric mice will be most effectively identified by complementary tools, such as in situ localization of human cells in tissues.
Native glucagon cells provide morphologic and functional plasticity to diabetes. Adult pig islet xenotransplantation can restore the sensitivity of primate glucagon to insulin but cannot protect the diabetic recipient against hypoglycemia.
The stable long-term expression of anti-PERV siRNAs was shown to be effective in knocking down PERV expression in cells. However, the very low (sometimes undetectable), and variable levels of expression of PERV in normal pigs make it difficult to obtain suitable control animals for comparison, to assess knockdown of PERV in vivo. This was demonstrated by the observation that even cloned non-transgenic littermates, express levels of PERV as low as that of some of their siRNA transgenic littermates. Further analysis is required to conclusively quantitate in vivo effects in the shRNA transgenic pigs.
Residual stress was retained in the excised porcine trachea, and the porcine trachea membrane disrupted when pressure in the inner wall increased. The porcine trachea exhibits good radial pedestal force, bending, and elongation properties.
Prevalence of MBL-producing P. aeruginosa has not significantly increased, but IMP-6 emerged in P. aeruginosa.
Approximately one-third of elementary schoolchildren were dissatisfied with their height or weight. Although their total CBCL psychological problem scores were closely related with school performance, they did not show any significant relation with height or weight status. Contrary to the general view, our study suggests that psychological problems of elementary schoolchildren may be related more with their school performance than their body physique.
In the current study, the association between self-reported exposure status to second-hand smoke and positive urinary cotinine in pregnant nonsmokers was poor. "Smoking currently permitted in the whole house" was a significant factor of positive urinary cotinine in pregnant nonsmokers. Furthermore, we suggest that a complete smoking ban at home should be considered to avoid potential adverse effects on pregnancy outcomes due to second-hand smoke.
We have concluded that it could be useful to consider post swim-up AI of sperm inseminated in conventional IVF cycles, which correlates with high fertilization and pregnancy rates.
The results indicated that OVX in mature cynomolgus monkeys (17-21 years of age) increased bone turnover and induced trabecular bone loss at the three skeletal sites compared with the sham controls. Thus, mature cynomolgus monkeys could be utilized for preclinical studies to examine the effects of interventions on bone turnover and trabecular bone mass at the 3 clinically important skeletal sites.
The crucial or appropriate rating surgeries may indicate better outcomes than uncertain or inappropriate rating surgeries do. The appropriate rating surgeries were more closely related to functional outcome vision function, VF-14 and subjective outcome (satisfaction with vision) in postoperative 12 months than inappropriate rating surgeries.
These findings indicate that OLF cells have phenotypic characterization of osteoblasts and chondrocytes which could play a role in the pathophysiology of OLF.
Deepened level of anesthesia affects central facilitation and results in the loss of the crossed adductor reflex, predisposing to a weakened glottic closure response. Precise understanding of this effect may possibly provide a way to prevent aspiration in unconscious patients.
CDIs such as the CCI and CAI may be potentially useful to detect and estimate repair for pectus excavatum.
This study demonstrates that oligonol improves estradiol-induced non-bacterial prostatitis by regulating phosphorylation of IkappaBa. These findings suggest that oligonol has a beneficial effect on prevention and treatment of CP/CPPS.
These results suggest that HSP60 may be involved in the development of cervical cancer and have profound biological and prognostic significance.
The influence of aging on serum concentrations of IGF-I is more remarkable in women than in men. Menopause causes reduction of IGF-I/IGFBP-3 molar ratio. Women have the trend of progressive hypoactivity of GH to stimulate IGF-I and IGFBP-3 secretions with age.
The results suggest that fentanyl attenuates phenylephrine-induced contraction by inhibiting the pathway involved in the alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor-mediated contraction of the rat aorta.
The results indicate that the phase contrast X-ray microtomography and microradiography using polychromatic synchrotron X-ray is feasible for evaluation of microstructure of the lung.
Medical professionalism can be categorized into three domains; professional knowledge, professional skills, and professional attitude. For the prominent differences in the recognition of the levels of professionalism elements in medical students by students and professors, further studies investigating the reasons for discrepancy are needed.
Er-YAG laser stapes surgery is safe to the inner ear, and it primal free from the imminent risk in stapes surgery, so the effect can be affirmed.
The cause of recurrent of trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm are unclear. Recurrent glossopharyngeal neuralgia may attribute to the nerve fibers reanastomosis, adhesion or the communicating branches with vagus nerve. With respect to the treatment of the recurrence of trigeminal neuralgia, glossopharyngeal neuralgia after primary surgery, the effectiveness of nerve fibre resection is definite, whereas, the result of revision surgery for hemifacial spasm is poor.
Overlay tympanoplasty has positive significance in treating the chronic otitis media with the merits of standard procedure, sufficient operative field and thorough erosion elimination.
Once the indications of cochlear implantation in patients with OME are guaranteed, the surgery should be conducted as early as possible. The complications of cochlear implantation in patients with OME can be effectively avoided through proper treatment in different stages.
Besides canalithiasis and cupulolithiasis, part of BPPV may be related with otolith organ or nerve disease.
Distant metastasis is an important factor affecting the prognosis of the patients with sinonasal adenoid cystic carcinoma. Combined therapy composed of surgery and radiation was the first choice of treatment to the patients with sinonasal adenoid cystic carcinoma. Radiation can play an important role in the treatment. The combined therapy mainly composed of surgery should be adopted in the patients with local recurrence to improve the survival rate.
FEES is an effective and valuable tool for evaluating oropharyngeal dysphagia, and is helpful in guiding the patients for diet and rehabilitation.
Traumatic laryngotracheal stenosis is a complex problem that usually needs a longer time for reconstruction and a different ways of approaches. It is necessary to evaluate the laryngotracheal framework defect, the degree and extension of stenosis systematically before operation for surgical planning.
Excision of the first-three SLNs with the highest radioactive counts can accurately judge the presence or absence of the cervical lymph nodes metastases in patients with the clinically N0 laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer.
Amatsu's tracheoesophageal shunt operation with sphincter mechanism brought effective speech rehabilitation results for total laryngectomy even with post-operation radiation therapy.
The conservative individualized therapy may play a key role in the treatment of cervical chylous leakage.
Endogenous CO and H2S play a significant role in the pathogenesis of AR, and HO-1 and CSE are the main speed-relate enzymes respectively. The H2S is also influenced by CO.
The reversion of Ang-1 and Ang-2 expression may plays an important role in the development and progression of OSCC. It is closely associated with the angiogenesis, vessel maturation and prognosis of OSCC.
SRL inhibits transplanted HCC tumor growth by reducing tumor angiogenesis, inhibiting tumor proliferation and inducing tumor apoptosis.
Stent implantation combined with three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy is a good treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein tumor thrombus and causes less damage to liver.
The specific siRNA is able to reduce the OPN expression at both the mRNA and protein levels and significantly inhibits the invasiveness of HCC cells.
HCC patients with HCV infection tended to be older, and were characterized by more severe cirrhosis and higher incidence of tumor multinodular. The statistically significant determinants of reoccurrence in patients with small HCC were HCV infection, presence of vascular invasion and multiple tumors.
HBV can be activated in immunosuppressed patients, nucleos(t)ide analogues should be used in early phase to prevent HBV reactivation.
Virus harboring both BCP and precore mutants has the higher replication level than wild type virus. 32.1% and 14.3% of the patients with both mutations have moderate or severe inflammation and fibrosis. There was a strong positive correlation between viral load and liver histological changes in patients without precore or BCP mutations, and viral load shows a high accuracy for predecting significant fibrosis (F &gt; or = 3).
Compared to lamivudine alone, Cai Shao Liu Ju Tang in combination with lamivudine is more effective and induces less YMDD mutation rate in CHB patients.
Sinusoidal endothelial cells are involved in development of liver fibrosis by interacting with hepatic stellate cells. Hepatic microcirculation disorders and sinusoidal capillarization are important changes in the early stage of liver fibrosis.
TGFbeta3 alleviates the damage to hepatic cell and the level of fibrosis in CCl(4) treated rats and inhibits the expression of collagen I.
Danshensu represses the activation and proliferation of HSCs, and inhibits the synthesis and secretion of Type I collagen, possibly via the repression of the JNK signal transduction.
Our results showed that the PEG10 gene could be expressed in the liver of the transgenic mice. PEG10 promotes growth, invasion, and metastasis of transplanted H22 tumors in mice.
Very low birth weight and maternal characteristics including overweight, smoking are associated with hepatoblastoma risk.
Mechanical forces upregulate the expression of ICAM-1 in A549 cells. PD98059 partly inhibits the upregulation of ICAM-1 induced by mechanical forces. ERK pathway may be partly involved in signal transduction of mechanical force induced expression of ICAM-1 in A549 cells.
Short-term CMV induced diaphragm fatigue and altered the function and morphology of diaphragm in SD rats. Diaphragmatic dysfunction induced by CMV maybe one of the important reasons for difficult weaning.
For ALS patients who need long-term ventilation support, the use of BiPAP non-invasive ventilators is a safe and effective alternative for invasive ventilators.
COX-2 and TLR4 distributed widely in the respiratory tract of the rats. LPS increased the expression of COX-2 and TLR4. Low dose of nitric oxide (20x10(-6) mg/L) inhalation reduced the bronchiolar expression of COX-2 and TLR4 induced by LPS.
Complicated clinical manifestations of lymphoma may have multi-system involvement. Lymphoma with extranodal presentations as the first sign may lead to misdiagnosis.
The 3 scoring systems can be used for both inpatients and emergency cases, while the Wells Score may be more accurate for Chinese people for predicting APE.
HRCT score helps to predict the recent response to corticosteroids. An HRCT score of 20% was an appropriate cutoff value and showed consistency with pathologic diagnosis.
CSE induces endothelial cell apoptosis and increases the expression of COX-2 protein in vascular endothelial cells. Celecoxib, the selective COX-2 inhibitor, reduces the expression of COX-2 protein and promotes cell apoptosis induced by CSE in vascular endothelial cells. COX-2 may play an important role in protecting development of CSE-associated apoptosis of endothelial cells.
4-HNE could increase the expression of IL-8 in the bronchial epithelial cells, via increasing the transcribing activities of AP-1 via ERK-1 cell signal transduction ways. Erythromycin could inhibit the synthesis of IL-8 by blocking AP-1 pathway. PD98059 and erythromycin could block AP-1 transduction pathway, but increase the synthesis of gamma-GCS induced by 4-HNE in bronchial epithelial cells.
Infection is frequent after natural disasters. It is necessary to summarize the changes of spectrum of pathogens and drug-resistant spectrum.
The MRSA stains isolated from the wounds caused by earthquake are highly homologous with those isolated from the patient from non-disastrous areas during the same period.
The Gram negative bacteria isolated from the wounds caused by earthquake show lower resistance to imipenem, amikacin, and cefoperazone/sulbactam. No Staphylococcus spp. is found resistant to glycopeptides.
There is a positive correlation between the amplitude of N2 and the difficulty in character semantic priming. It is more difficult for the ADHD children than normal controls to accomplish the same semantic task. ADHD children need more attention resources than normal controls. The amplitudes of character related-N2 and unrelated-P3 may become markers to measure the development of recognition in the ADHD children, thus being helpful in the ADHD diagnosis.
Omentin mRNA is highly expressed in omental adipose tissue. The omentin mRNA expression level decreases in the overweight/obese individuals and decreases further when overweight/obesity is combined with type 2 diabetes. Omentin mRNA is positively correlated to serum omentin level, obese indexes, insulin resistance, and lipid metabolism parameters. Decreased omentin gene expression may contribute to the underlying pathophysiology of insulin resistance syndrome.
(1) People with glucose intolerance had very high prevalence of stroke than novmoglgcemic people. (2) Hyperglycemia in MS has an extremely important role in the impact of MS on stroke in Chinese. (3) Diabetes by itself has the same significance as the combination of MS components in the development of stroke.
TEOND is effective and safe for TON patients, but the visual outcome is poor for the immediate blindness cases. The surgery is indicated for the patients with some residual vision or with a gradual visual loss and is suggested to perform early within seven days after injury.
Playing an important role in the carcinogenesis and development of papillary thyroid carcinoma, MUC1 can be used as a biomarker in this carcinoma. There was a significant positive correlation between MUC1 expression and beta-catenin expression.
Mass of neutrophil aggregation and activation exist in RSV bronchiolitis, as well as protease system imbalance, and may play an important role in the inflammatory response and pathogenesis of RSV bronchiolitis.
The most common FcgammaRIIIA polymorphism in DLCL is VF type, followed by VV and FF types. The patients with FcgammaRIIIA VV and VF types are more sensitive to the initial treatment of rituximab combined with chemotherapy compared to the patients with FF type.
CCLNM occurs more frequently in the PTMC patients who are younger than 43 years and in those who have larger tumor.
The tri-structure method can not only confirm the cystic duct correctly, thus preventing iatrogenic bile duct injury, but also shorten the operating time and reduce the open conversion ratio during LC.
MR is much more useful in diagnosis of adrenal cyst. The indications of surgery include the presence of symptoms, suspicion of malignancy, increase in the cyst size, and detection of functioning adrenal cyst. Unroofing in cyst via retroperitoneal laparoscopy may be the standard operation in treating this disease.
The incidence of cancers, especially the lung cancer, shows a trend to increase in both the males and females in Dafeng. Priority should be paid to prevention and treatment of cancers of the digestive and respiratory systems.
SERCA2a overexpression attenuates ERS induced by hypoxia or tunicamycin, and protects cardiomyocytes against ERS-mediated cellular injury.
BMP-7 inhibits the production of type I, and III collagen in activated HSC with the possible mechanism of inhibition of phosphorylated Smad2/3 in HSCs and down-regulation of the expression of TGF-beta1.
The T47D-tk cells have integrated the HSV1-tk gene without changing its growing characteristics. An animal model of implanted breast cancer has been successfully established. The T47D and T47D-tk subcutaneous xenografts offer the foundation for further study of gene imaging and gene therapy.
GJB2 gene mutation is one of the major causes for CI recipients with autosomal recessive NSHI. The treatment outcomes of CI recipients with GJB2 gene mutations under 7 years old are satisfying.
Initial LD dose, LD dose per kilogram body weight, accumulated LD dose, and accumulated LD equivalent dose may be independent factors associated with motor complications. The time from disease onset to initiation of LD was not correlated with motor complications.
Neuromuscular blocking drugs significantly depress the MEP in a dose-dependent manner. Intra-operatively it may be preferable to maintain the value of TOF not less than 2 during the critical periods of MEP monitoring.
Ultrasound-guided infraclavicular brachial plexus block via coracoid approach can reduce the volume of local anesthetic mixture. The dose of 6 ml local anesthetic mixture for each nerve fascicle, totally 18 ml, provides good analgesic effect and does not seem to affect the time for anesthesia taking effect.
Clarity of cornea reflexes the condition of primary congenital glaucoma more stably than IOP. It is possible to prognosticate the surgical outcome to combine the clarity of cornea with the IOP value before operation.
Intravenous iron sucrose effectively increases the serum iron parameters and hemoglobin levels during maintenance peritoneal dialysis and is well tolerated. Infusing intravenous iron sucrose 200 mg every two weeks can maintain the serum iron parameters and hemoglobin level in maintenance peritoneal dialysis patients and n permits reduction of the required dose of EPO. However, the total cost of intravenous iron treatment is relatively high.
A rare malignant tumor arising from the secondary Mllerian system, primary peritoneal adenocarcinoma shares similar histopathological characters with ovary carcinoma, so is easy to be misdiagnosed. Immunohistochemical staining is helpful to the differential diagnosis.
Down-regulated mRNA expression of MyoD gene is involved in the mechanism of DM.
The serum pro-inflammatory cytokines MIF, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 levels play an important role in the pathogenesis of DM and DPN, but may not play an important role in the development of DPNP.
NED is associated with poor prognosis and hormone refractory prostate cancer in patients with androgen deprivation therapy.
Granulated cancellous bone autografting is a suitable method for managing infected nonunion with large skeletal defects. And cancellous bone allografting has a higher incidence of re-nonunion and longer time for using external fixator.
An anti-sense cDNA library with high quantity and quality has been successfully constructed; LIV1 gene may be one of the essential genes with anti-tumor effects on apoptosis induced by trichostatin A.
Inhibiting the growth of lung cancer cells and neovascularization, PEDF protein may be used as a potential biological drug to treat lung cancer.
MSC transplantation increases the expression of VEGF and PCNA, while decreases the expression of nm23 gene in cancer cells, thus favoring the tumor growth.
Treatment of the DCs with 1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3) inhibits the allergic inflammation in the airway, maybe via the induction of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells by 1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3)-treated DCs through Jagged2-mediated Notch signal pathway.
The asthma management strategy based on T-bet gene modified DCs is feasible with the plausible mechanism that the T-bet gene modified DCs regulate the T cells differentiation and polarization on the antigen presenting level.
The clinical manifestations and course of CSS vary considerably. Its clinical manifestations may range from mild symptoms to life-threatening conditions. Corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide are both effective remedies. Despite relapses in several cases, the general prognosis is good.
The levels of asthma control and asthma perception among the asthma patients in Beijing have been improved a lot. The asthma perception of the patients influences the control level greatly.
Sphk1 plays a leading role in keloid pathogenesis. The SphK1 mRNA and protein levels are increased by TGF-beta1 stimulation in keloid fibroblasts, perhaps indicating that Sphk1 is involved in TGF-beta signal transduction pathway.
Lung is one of the target organs of aGVHD. IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha may play a role in the pathogenesis of aGVHD-induced lung injury. Acute GVHD-induced lung injury may progress to late-onset non-infectious lung injury.
The CD2AP expression is much stronger in MCRCC than in CCRCC and SRC. CD2AP may be used as a biomarker in differential diagnosis of MCRCC, CCRCC, and SRC. The identical expression of CD2AP and nephrin in MCRCC and their specific expression in podocytes are important hints for the mechanism of MCRCC.
Abnormality in the chromosomes in exfoliated urothelial cells of superficial bladder cancer patients using FISH technique helps predict recurrence and progression of the cancer.
Transurethral unroofing provides an effective approach to the seminal vesicle cyst with minimal invasion, short hospitalization, and rapid recovery.
DNMT3b may regulate the expression and the function of cyclin D1 gene in the human hepatocellular carcinoma cells, but does not change its methylation state. DNMT3b may play their role as a signal transduction element rather than as a DNA methyltransferase.
The visceral hyposensitivity induced by REM sleep deprivation may be associated with the increase of expression of CNS endocannabinoid receptor and decrease of its metabolism.
Our current specimen collections are inadequate for discovery and validation of biomarkers. Current and future trials should mandate collection of fixed tissues as well as DNA/RNA. Effective crossgroup collaboration is necessary to permit timely completion of phase III trials. Centers with appropriate expertise and resources in the developing world should be encouraged to participate in the current clinical trial networks.
The Surgisis AFP was successful in 71.4% of patients. Plug extrusion does not necessarily mean failure.
We found that SSc patients were in poor nutritional status and had decreased functional and physical capacity by the weakening of the muscles of the elbow demonstrated by the isokinetic evaluation. We concluded that our SSc patients were at high risk for malnutrition and this may indicate that scleroderma patients need a better nutritional orientation. We do consider that SSc patients also must be included in physical activity programs in order to achieve better physical performance.
PH had never been reported in the JDM population. The PH was a severe clinical complication and occurred previously to JDM diagnosis.
The ferrofluids of 250 and 500 nm particle sizes were well tolerated as shown by the laboratory and histological data and should be evaluated in further studies regarding their clinical use in magnetic drug targeting.
CIQ and QoL scores were higher among sport participants compared to non-sport participants. There was an association between mean CIQ and RNL scores for both groups. Sport participants were 4.75 and 7.00 times as likely to have high CIQ and QoL scores. Both groups had a similar likelihood of high CIQ and RNL scores after adjusting for important confounders. Individuals who participated in sports prior to SCI were more likely to participate in sports post-SCI.
All outcome variables showed significant improvement at follow-up with good ulcer healing rate (87.0%), low initial complication (16.6%) and recurrence rates (17.3%), and good neurologic (56.5%) and functional (P &lt; 0.005) recovery. Timely surgical interventions are necessary for Stage III to IV pressure ulcers, and simultaneous inpatient rehabilitation significantly improves outcome of patients with spinal cord disease.
Subsequent and long-term cold application induced prolonged inhibitory effects on clonus. Tizanidine had no significant effect on clonus. Suppression of clonus by cold highlights the importance of peripheral input in relation to central mechanisms.
EPT is an objective, reproducible, and quantifiable method of assessing sensation in a control group. However, caution should be applied in certain dermatomes such as S2, where there was large variation between left and right side measurements.
Although there was support for the 1-factor structure of the PHQ within and between sexes, the low congruence between sexes and within women for the 2-factor structure indicates potentially important differences about how certain symptoms may be experienced or interpreted differently, by men and women with SCI. Future research should focus on where sexes diverge in cognitive, affective, and somatic dimensions of depressive symptoms and whether sex-specific or sex-neutral measures are warranted.
In children as young as 6 years, within-rater agreement on LT, PP, and TM exceeded recommended values for clinical measures. With the exception of 6- to 11-year-olds with incomplete injuries, type of injury and severity of injury were not factors in agreement. Although more work is needed to define the lower age limit in which the ISCSCI have utility, these data represent growing evidence supporting the use of the ISCSCI when evaluating the neurological consequence of SCI in children.
Behaviors can be meaningfully combined into underlying dimensions to more efficiently use them as predictors of secondary conditions.
These results suggest that a phosphodiesterase inhibitor capable of elevating cAMP levels can enhance phrenic nerve output and restore respiratory-related phrenic nerve function after high cervical spinal cord injury. Thus, targeting the cAMP signaling cascade can be a useful therapeutic approach in promoting synaptic efficacy and respiratory recovery after cervical spinal cord injury.
This single-subject study shows that the control of spasticity can be achieved without detrimental effects on strength in incomplete SCI and suggests the need for including strength testing in comprehensive clinical assessment of spasticity. The study shows convergent validity between clinical and neurophysiologic assessments during ITB dose titration. Adding neurophysiologic assessment to clinical assessment may provide objectivity and sensitivity and facilitate decision-making during ITB titration.
Despite being mostly asymptomatic and an incidental finding, Tarlov cyst is an important clinical entity because of its tendency to increase in size with time. Tarlov cysts of the sacral and cauda equina region may be a rare underlying cause in otherwise unexplained retrograde ejaculations and infertility. Microsurgical excision may be a good option in a select group of patients.
This report emphasizes that AD can occur in MS. Somatic symptoms warrant thorough investigation before attributing them to psychosomatic causes.
Severe progressive fatigue in a patient with chronic SCI may signal cardiomyopathy. Diagnostic studies may be warranted in patients with progressive fatigue.
Based on the evidence supporting the relationship between primary care, improved population health, and reduced health care costs, measurement of primary care transformation approaches such as the medical home can and should include specific measurement of the services associated with the four core attributes of primary care.
When the diagnosis of open-angle glaucoma is unclear, the assessment of members of family may be useful.
The questionnaire has provided useful information on the quality of glaucoma patients care in Romania; if it is periodically repeated (with necessary updates) it will reflect the dynamic of this issue in our country
A large proportion of our pseudoexfoliative glaucoma patients needed antiglaucoma surgery. Even after surgery, about 2/3 of eyes were still under topical therapy. Under this management, we have noted a progression of the C/D ratio, but not of the visual field parameters during the follow-up period.
Tinea of the eyebrows is a rare disease that occurs usually secondary to other dermatophytic infection and rarely isolated.
When comparing the different methods used in the pterygium surgery in terms of relapse we noticed the increased efficiency of the limbo-conjunctival autografting. The encouraging results stimulate us in using and recommending this method.
Youth who lose a parent, especially through suicide, are vulnerable to depression and alcohol or substance abuse during the second year after the loss. Depression risk in the second year is mediated by the increased incidence of depression within the first 9 months. The most propitious time to prevent or attenuate depressive episodes in bereaved youth may be shortly after the parent's death. Interventions that target complicated grief and blaming of others may also improve outcomes in symptomatic youth with parental bereavement.
Intensive training in early auditory processes and auditory-verbal learning results in substantial gains in verbal cognitive processes relevant to psychosocial functioning in schizophrenia. These gains may be due to a training method that addresses the early perceptual impairments in the illness, that exploits intact mechanisms of repetitive practice in schizophrenia, and that uses an intensive, adaptive training approach.
Bipolar spectrum disorders in youths are characterized by episodic illness with subsyndromal and, less frequently, syndromal episodes with mainly depressive and mixed symptoms and rapid mood changes.
While scores on performance-based measures of everyday living skills were similar in people with schizophrenia across cultures, real-world residential outcomes were very different. These data suggest that cultural and social support systems can lead to divergent real-world outcomes among individuals who show evidence of the same levels of ability and potential.
Institutional rearing was associated with substantial psychiatric morbidity. Removing young children from institutions and placing them in families significantly reduced internalizing disorders, although girls were significantly more responsive to this intervention than boys.
Increased GCP II expression and low mGluR3 expression in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex suggest that NAAG-mediated signaling is impaired in this brain region in schizophrenia. Further, these data implicate the mGluR3 receptor in the antipsychotic action of mGluR2/mGluR3 agonists.
JPAC and C-ACT may partially reflect the respiratory function, with preference to JPAC. In contrast, these questionnaires did not reflect FENO. Thus, physician should use these questionnaires with consideration of these points.
The proportion of immediate-type reactions to local anesthetics is small but not rare in patients suspected of having local anesthetic allergy. This result suggests that the diagnostic approach to confirm allergy to local anesthetics is clinically important and requires further study in a larger population.
The rate of in vitro metabolism of artemisinin was correlated significantly to that of bupropion, propofol and efavirenz, suggesting artemisinin to be a potential alternative marker to assess CYP2B6 activity. Further studies characterizing the metabolic fate of artemisinin are needed in order to evaluate its utility as an in vitro and in vivo CYP2B6 probe substrate, since CYP2B6 might not be the only CYP isoform involved in the depletion of artemisinin.
Vascular calcification was present in a large proportion of maintenance hemodialysis patients, most frequently in the abdominal aorta. Diabetes and plasma fetuin-A levels were independent risk factors for vascular calcification in maintenance hemodialysis patients.
Reducing CRB is still a challenge for nephrologists to reduce patient morbidity and mortality. Our study could demonstrate that diabetes, previous history of CRB, site of catheter implantation and duration of catheter use were the most important risk factors for bacteremia. Therefore, to prevent CRB, particular attention should be paid to patients with diabetes and a previous history of bacteremia following strict hygienic and aseptic rules for catheter handling associated with the regular use of antiseptic lock solutions.
Endotoxin-free UD can improve the chronic inflammatory status, oxidative stress, and lipid abnormalities, suggesting a possible contribution to reduced cardiovascular disease risk and ultimately to lowered mortality in HD patients.
Plasma exchange improved liver function in recipients with progressive liver failure and appears to be indicated in patients with total bilirubin levels ranging between 13 and 24 mg/dl.
We suggest that an equal or higher concentration of chemokines in the interstitium in patients with HDF or high-flux HD might be one mechanism responsible for the preserved function of transmigrated leukocytes.
Intravenous infusion of IS causes oxidative stress and inflammation within peritoneal MCs which may impair viability of the peritoneum.
Post-HD ECW/TBW by BIS is worthy of further evaluation as a pathophysiological index for reducing CV mortality in HD patients.
Dialysate VEGF-C is related to higher transport rate and poorer UF. The role of VEGF-C in PD deserves further study.
ACP1 may be involved in susceptibility to CAD. Since ACP1 has been found to be associated with immunological diseases, our observation reinforces the notion of an immune component in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
Stenting unprotected distal bifurcated LMCA was associated with unfavorable results when compared to stenting other LMCA lesions.
These results clearly demonstrate that in CHF patients significant changes in SS and SAS occur, which are thought to relate to the morphofunctional alterations of myocardium. The observed changes in the levels of these biomarkers may serve as potential surrogates to monitor severity of disease, to evaluate response to drug treatment, and as a rational basis for new therapeutic approaches.
FN expression in response to the acute mechanical strain resembling AR is upregulated primarily via JNK. However, in chronic AR both JNK and p38MAPK are involved. These signaling pathways represent potential therapeutic targets for normalizing extracellular matrix (ECM) composition and contractile force transmission, believed to be related to ECM composition/organization, in AR.
Because ovarian cancer is rarely cured by conventional chemotherapies, GnRH-4EBP fusion peptide may be of therapeutic potential for treatment of this disease.
Adoptive T-cell transfers achieve robust T-cell recovery early after transplant and induce moderate-to-severe autologous GVHD in a subset of patients.
The immune response is critical in mediating the efficacy of reovirus, and does not depend upon direct viral oncolysis or replication. The findings are of direct relevance to fulfilling the potential of this novel anticancer agent.
CTR2 is a major determinant of sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of DDP and CBDCA. CTR2 functions by limiting drug accumulation, and its expression correlates with the sensitivity of human ovarian carcinoma cell lines to DDP.
GAB2 amplification is critical for melanomas arising from sun-protected sites. Genetic alterations in GAB2 will help refine the molecular classification of melanomas.
We show, for the first time, concurrently multiplexing detection of salivary mRNA and protein biomarkers using point-of-care EC sensor.
NK012/CDDP combination may be a promising candidate regimen against lung cancer without severe diarrhea toxicity and therefore warrants further clinical evaluation.
This study shows that expression of DBC1 and SIRT1 is a significant prognostic indicator for gastric carcinoma patients.
Analysis of BCR features may help identify CLL patients at risk of RS. A close monitoring and a careful biopsy policy may help early recognition of RS in CLL patients using stereotyped BCR, particularly if combined with IGHV4-39.
This study provided a novel mechanism for the anticancer effect of FTY720 on advanced prostate cancer, thus highlighting the therapeutic potential of this drug in treating this disease.
Using simple variables, we validated a prognostic model for IgG MGUS. Among the IgA cases, the possible prognostic role of hemoglobin emerged in addition to a decrease in normal immunoglobulin levels.
CD133 is expressed by human endometrial cancers and might represent a valuable tool to identify cells with cancer stem cell characteristics.
The identification of a DR52b-restricted epitope from ESO that is immunodominant in the context of vaccine-elicited immune responses is instrumental for the immunologic monitoring of vaccination trials targeting this important tumor antigen.
EphA2 expression in NSCLC is associated with K-Ras mutations, EGFR activation, smoking history, and poor prognosis. EphA2 expression is up-regulated in the context of EGFR or K-Ras activation. The potential of EphA2 as a therapeutic target for NSCLC should be further investigated.
Gefitinib monotherapy confers substantial clinical benefit in terms of progression-free survival and overall survival in non-small cell lung cancer patients with EGFR mutations. Randomized trials comparing chemotherapy with gefitinib as a first-line treatment are warranted in such patients.
The T--&gt;C schedule was better tolerated because both hematologic and nonhematologic toxicities were milder. Other pharmacodynamic factors than the ones investigated must explain the schedule-dependent differences in toxicities.
Urinary met may provide a noninvasive biomarker indicative of metastatic prostate cancer and may be a central regulator of multiple pathways involved in prostate cancer progression.
Disturbed B-cell homeostasis is a previously unrecognized feature of patients with advanced melanoma and other cancers and may represent an unanticipated mechanism of immune incompetence in cancer.
M2-like macrophages infiltrate HPV16-associated tumors causing suppression of antitumor T-cell response, thus facilitating tumor growth. Depletion or phenotype alteration of this population should be considered in immunotherapy strategies.
These findings show for the first time that local tumor PDT can enhance systemic immune responses to tumors in patients, and validate previous preclinical findings.
Our data show a critical role of constitutively activated p38 MAPK in the acquirement of tolerogenic pattern by DCs during melanoma progression that contributes to the suppression of antitumor T-cell immune responses. We suggest that new strategies of melanoma immunotherapy can include inhibitors of p38 MAPK activity in DCs.
This is believed to be the first trial reporting the combination of radioimmunotherapy and vascular disruptive agent; each component was shown to function, and myelosuppression was dose-limiting. Optimal dose and timing of CA4P, and moderate improvements in the performance of radioimmunotherapy seem necessary for efficacy.
Our findings indicate that epigenetic inactivation of genes, including RASD1, plays a key role in the development of dexamethasone resistance in multiple myeloma. Moreover, they show the utility of demethylation therapy in cases of advanced multiple myeloma.
Cyclin D1 overexpression is associated with longer survival in colon cancer.
These findings provide evidence that detection of KRAS mutational status in CTCs, by gene expression array, has potential for clinical application in selecting metastatic colorectal cancer patients most likely to benefit from cetuximab therapy.
The promising present results provide the basis for a phase I clinical trial in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma.
To consider phase II testing with multiple biological subtypes, a strategy which combines both the individual subgroup tests and overall combined tests has promising statistical properties. Our results support the appropriate use of statistical borrowing of information in phase II studies in this setting. More broadly, this work fits the paradigm that phase II studies should include as broad a group of patients as scientifically reasonable, but incorporate design considerations for subsets of patients with potentially differing responses to therapy.
Our results indicate that Ad-TK+GCV+Ad-Flt3L exhibit the highest efficacy and safety profile among the several proapoptotic approaches tested. The results reported further support the implementation of this combined approach in a phase I clinical trial for GBM.
Drugs commonly used for glaucoma treatment can be passively transferred to a hydrogel contact lens and then eluted from the polymer. Data obtained from a limited number of patients suggest that this contact lens/drug delivery system may be a feasible means of controlling IOP.
In the present study, the CsA treatment group exhibited significantly greater increases in CT compared to controls. Such an increase may indicate an improvement in the integrity of the ocular surface and resolution of the underlying inflammation as a consequence of topical CsA treatment.
Apart from Schmidt's sign, we found the colour vision of the compound heterozygote to be indistinguishable from that of a normal trichromat.
Competency standards are used by Australian and New Zealand registration authorities for the purposes of registration and therapeutic endorsement of registration via the Optometry Council of Australia and New Zealand accreditation and assessment processes. They have also been used as the basis of the World Council of Optometry Global Competency-Based Model.
Stapled transanal rectal resection produces improved function and better quality of life for patients with obstructed defecation that is maintained at 12 months of follow-up. Further investigation is required to optimize patient selection and reduce the potential complications of postoperative defecatory urgency and pain.
Laparoscopic surgical techniques for mid and low rectal cancer seem safe and feasible with acceptable oncologic and long-term outcomes. Further studies, comparing laparoscopic and open methods, are warranted.
Despite the complexity of this technique, it is safe and feasible. Careful preoperative radiologic assessment and a multidisciplinary approach are paramount to achieving clear margins.
Sacral nerve stimulation is an effective treatment in patients with fecal incontinence who have anal sphincter defects, and outcome is not associated with severity of sphincter disruption.
A 23-hour-stay laparoscopic colectomy is possible with modification of the enhanced recovery program. Patients find it acceptable and it seems to be safe.
A lymph node ratio &gt;or=0.25 was an independent prognostic factor in Stage III colon adenocarcinoma regardless of the number positive nodes. It modified outcomes predicted by the current staging system.
Severe postoperative complications seem to be associated with several lower quality-of-life subscores over the long term. In contrast, a stoma is associated with improved global health status and leads to fewer gastrointestinal complaints. In patients prone to complications, it may be sensible to avoid creating a low anastomosis and to construct a permanent stoma immediately.
Mutation analysis may be used to predict the risk of secondary proctectomy after primary colectomy in familial adenomatous polyposis. Patients with severe genotypes have a high risk of reoperation after primary colectomy and will benefit from primary proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. The risk of rectal cancer after primary colectomy was not significantly different between the three groups.
Because we could demonstrate almost identical failure rates, we consider relative survival to be a powerful tool in clinical settings in which a comprehensive follow-up is not possible. It is especially useful as a reference parameter for clinical audit.
Long-term colorectal cancer-related outcomes in the older group are similar to the outcomes in younger patients, suggesting that the decision to operate should not be based on age alone.
Patients with ypT0-2 rectal cancer following neoadjuvant chemoradiation have very small perirectal nodes. Individual metastatic lymph nodes are significantly larger. However, a significant number of lymph nodes after neoadjuvant chemoradiation (negative and positive) are &lt;3 mm. Individual lymph node size is not a good predictor of nodal metastases and may lead to inaccurate radiologic staging.
Success rates after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and continent ileostomy are high. Their rates of failure are similar. Salvage procedures are substantial with both procedures. Complications and failure after continent ileostomy are not inferior to those after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. Continent ileostomy remains an option in patients for whom ileal pouch-anal anastomosis is unsuitable.
Gracilis muscle transposition can be proposed in cases of recurrent rectovaginal fistula. The procedure has a good success rate, especially in Crohn's disease patients.
Simple and readily available preoperative risk factors can achieve risk stratification. Risk stratification based on preoperative risk factors only possibly has comparable efficacy with those models that use preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative risk factors.
Our findings suggest that unique mutational pathways are involved in the development of most colorectal tumors. Proximal colon cancers are more likely than rectal and distal colon tumors to have microsatellite instability, CpG island methylator phenotype, and Ki-ras mutations, whereas rectal and distal colon tumors are more likely than proximal colon tumors to have a p53 mutation. Overall, rectal and distal colon tumors share similar mutational frequencies which are different from those observed in proximal colon tumors.
Conventional peritoneal cytology is a useful prognostic tool in patients undergoing curative surgery for colorectal cancer and may be helpful in making decisions whether to select intraperitoneal or systemic chemotherapy.
The female rat is a suitable and reliable model for studying effect of direct and indirect injury to the anal sphincters.
The preoperative level of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 level reflected disease progression and was a sensitive biomarker for colorectal cancer, especially Stage 2 disease.
Adenoma detection rates did not differ significantly, whether there was trainee involvement or not. A trend toward finding more adenomas or advanced adenomas in the absence of a trainee was observed, but it was lower than previously reported interobserver variability among experienced physicians. The small difference in adenoma detection was not observed for polyp detection, which may be explained by the more frequent removal of hyperplastic polyps by trainees.
Primary laparoscopic lavage for complicated diverticulitis may be a promising alternative to more radical surgery in selected patients. Larger studies have to be made before clinical recommendations can be given.
Treatment with anti-angiogenic multi-kinase inhibitors may be associated with gastrointestinal perforations. This has been reported for sorafenib in up to 2.3 % of cases.
The determined specific IgE-antibodies may be the result of a direct sensitization to ragweed pollen or correspond to cross-reactivity to other plants of the asteraceae subfamily or some nutritional allergens. The detection of sensitization to ragweed pollen does not prove actual allergic disease. However, a ragweed derived allergy should be considered in the differential diagnosis when allergic symptoms are present in direct connection to the flowering-time of ragweed. Ragweed plants should be removed and the spread of the plant 'restricted', as experiences in other countries with already wide spreading show.
In the evaluation of unclear acute abdominal pain, interdisciplinary cooperation is very important to ensure a fast and appropriate diagnosis and therapy as shown in our case.
Both speech recognition in noise and noise tolerance are strongly associated with CI users' self-perceived communication ability. The two measures seem to reflect different factors that influence an individual's communication experience; thus, both may provide useful clinical information. The establishment of formal criteria for BKB-SIN scores and ANL scores that are predictive of excessive communication difficulty may help to identify CI users who could benefit from additional audiologic rehabilitation.
Findings support using pulsed, warbled, and pulsed-warbled tones for threshold measurements at the frequencies recommended by ASHA.
A disarticulation of the ossicular chain in human cadaver ears produces a low-frequency notch in ER that recovers with repair of the disarticulation. These results suggest that ER has the potential for use in the diagnosis of ossicular discontinuity and to monitor the status of the repaired ossicular chain. More data are needed to compare ER results from patients undergoing surgery for ossicular discontinuity with those of patients with other ossicular disorders such as otosclerosis.
On average, use of CC while watching television dramatically improved speech understanding by a sample of older hearing-impaired adults compared with conditions without CC, including when HAs were worn.
BCR is one of several alternative methods for choosing UNHS criteria, in which the evaluation of costs and benefits allows clinical and societal considerations to be incorporated into the pass/refer decision in a meaningful way. Although some of the benefits of early identification of hearing impairment cannot be estimated through a monetary analysis, such as improved psychosocial development and quality of life, this article provides an alternative to audiologists and administrators for selecting UNHS protocols that includes consideration of societal implications of UNHS screening criteria. BCR suggests that UNHS is a worthwhile investment for society as benefits always outweigh costs, at least for the estimations included in this article. Although the use of screening criteria that maximize BCR results in lower test sensitivity compared with other criteria, BCR may be used to select criteria that result in increased test sensitivity and still provide a high, although not maximal, BCR. Using BCR analysis provides a framework in which the societal implications of NHS protocols are considered and emphasizes the value of UNHS.
During the early stages of bilateral hearing through cochlear implants in postlingually deafened adults, there is an early emergence of spatial hearing skills. Although nearly all subjects can discriminate source locations to the right versus left, less than half are able to perform the more difficult task of identifying source locations in a multispeaker array. Benefits for speech intelligibility with one versus two implants improve with time, in particular when spatial cues are used to segregate speech and competing noise. Localization and speech-in-noise abilities in this group of patients are somewhat correlated.
The CAMP test discriminates a wide range of music perceptual ability in cochlear implant users. Moderate correlations were seen between music test results and both Consonant-Nucleus-Consonant word recognition scores and spondee recognition thresholds in background noise. Test-retest reliability was moderate to strong. The CAMP test provides a reliable and valid metric for a clinically practical, standardized evaluation of music perception in adult cochlear implant users.
The situations of professionals who have hearing loss can be modeled, with a central theme of maintaining job competency or a competitive edge. It is hypothesized that five factors affect professionals' abilities to continue their optimal work performance in the face of hearing loss: (a) self-concept and sense of internal locus of control, (b) use of hearing assistive technology, (c) supervisor's and co-workers' perceptions and the provision of accommodations in the workplace, (d) use of effective coping strategies, and (e) communication difficulties and problem situations. The implications that the present findings hold for aural rehabilitation intervention plans are considered, and a problem-solving approach is reviewed.
The Spatial Hearing Questionnaire is a reliable and valid questionnaire that can be completed independently by most patients in about 10 minutes. It is likely to be a valuable tool for clinicians and researchers to measure spatial hearing abilities.
Formally trained musicians compared with nonmusicians showed more efficient neural detection of pure tones and harmonic tones; demonstrated superior auditory sensory-memory traces for acoustic features of pure tones, harmonic tones, and speech; and revealed enhanced sensitivity to acoustic changes of spectrally rich stimuli (i.e., harmonic tones and speech). Findings support a general influence of music training on central auditory function and illustrate experience-facilitated modulation of the auditory neural system.
An important issue for the future is to link the quantification of chemicals in environmental compartments (exposure and pollution monitoring) more closely to the study of biological effects (effect monitoring) than has been the case up to now. Furthermore, by inclusion of a spatial differentiation, a comprehensive evaluation of the state of an ecosystem can be obtained and the relevance of the results improved. Practical examples of monitoring studies which illustrate various aspects covered in this position paper will be presented in a series of publications by members of the Work Group in the following issues of this journal.
To help describe the long-term patterns of each metal, the metal concentration data between the two cities were compared in a number of respects. The results show strong compatibility with respect to relative trends between Seoul and Busan. When the long-term trends are compared for the entire study period (1991-2004), most metals tend to experience reductions in their concentrations through the years (with an exception of Cr), regardless of the city. The patterns were so distinctive that the statistical significance of this decline, if compared by the magnitude of probability in the regression analysis, generally increased in the order: Mn &lt; Cd &lt; Ni &lt; Pb. A more detailed analysis of the temporal patterns (i.e., the second half of the study period (period II): 1998-2004), however, indicates that some metals reversed their trend to an increasing direction. For instance, Ni and Cr (both cities) and Mn (Seoul) showed an annual rate of change (ARC) in the range of 5.57 to 11.5%. However, others consistently maintained a declining trend with ARC values of -1.55 (Cd at Seoul) to -12.2% (Pb at Busan).
According to the analysis of the long-term trend of trace metals, the efficiency of emission control appears to be highly complicated, as its effect is visualized to a certain extent. The patterns investigated in the two largest cities in Korea over a decadal period show that the reduction in concentration levels has been the most prominent and consistent for Pb but the least effective for Cr. Comparison among different studies and locations points out that changes in metal concentration levels, whether being an increase or decrease, should be tightly associated with the status of environmental pollution in the targeted area.
Evaluation of long-term monitoring data for toxic metals is helpful to judge various factors involved in regulation efforts and the response of those target pollutants. Future efforts are desirable to develop methods that allow a comparison of measurement data between the particle-filtrated samples and time-integrated environmental archives (bioaccumulation). Such efforts can provide the descriptive basis for explaining the environmental behavior of toxic metals at various time scales.
Since the strong linear relationship between the K (d) values of acetochlor and the organic carbon content was already released, the corresponding K (oc) values were calculated. Considerable variation in the K (oc) values suggested that other soil/sediment parameters besides the total soil organic carbon content could be involved in acetochlor sorption. This was revealed by a significant correlation between the K (oc) values and the ratio of humic acid carbon to fulvic acid carbon (C(HA)/C(FA)).
When comparing acetochlor sorption in a range of soils and sediments, different K (d) values which are strongly correlated to the total organic carbon content were found. Concerning the humus fractions, the humic acid carbon content was strongly correlated to the K (d) values, and it is therefore a better predictor of the acetochlor sorption than the total organic carbon content. Variation in the K (oc) values was attributed to the differences in distribution of humus components between soils and sediments. Desorption of acetochlor was significantly influenced by total organic carbon content, with a greater organic carbon content reducing desorption.
This study examined the sorption-desorption processes of acetochlor in soils and sediments. The obtained sorption data are important for qualitative assessment of acetochlor mobility in natural solids, but further studies must be carried out to understand its environmental fate and transport more thoroughly. Although, the total organic carbon content, the humus fractions of the organic matter and the C(HA)/C(FA) ratio were sufficient predictors of the acetochlor sorption-desorption. Further investigations of the structural and chemical characteristics of humic substances derived from different origins are necessary to more preciously explain differences in acetochlor sorption in the soils and sediments observed in this study.
The response in the CALUX and the Comet bioassays as well as the chemical analysis indicate that the soil might be more toxic to organisms living in soil after 274 days of treatment than in the untreated soil, due to the release of previously sorbed PAHs and possibly also metabolic formation of novel toxicants.
Our results put focus on the issue of slow degradation rates and bioavailability of PAHs during large-scale bioremediation treatments. The release of sorbed PAHs at the investigated PAH-contaminated site seemed to be faster than the degradation rate, which demonstrates the importance of considering the bioavailable fraction of contaminants during a bioremediation process.
It has to be ensured that soft remediation methods like biodegradation or the natural remediation approach do not result in the mobilization of toxic compounds including more mobile degradation products. For PAH-contaminated sites this cannot be assured merely by monitoring the 16 target PAHs. The combined use of a battery of biotests for different types of PAH effects such as the CALUX and the Comet assay together with bioavailability extraction methods may be a useful screening tool of bioremediation processes of PAH-contaminated soil and contribute to a more accurate risk assessment. If the bioremediation causes a release of bound PAHs that are left undegraded in an easily extracted fraction, the soil may be more toxic to organisms living in the soil as a result of the treatment. A prolonged treatment time may be one way to reduce the risk of remaining mobile PAHs. In critical cases, the remediation concept might have to be changed to ex situ remediation methods.
The highest concentrations of antihistamines in STP wastewaters correlate with the outbreak of allergic reaction caused by high amounts of plant pollens in the air. The analysis results of the river water samples show that the antihistamines are carried far away from the effluent discharge points. They may account for a part of the mix of pharmaceuticals and of pharmaceutical metabolites that occur downstream of STPs.
Antihistamines are poorly degraded/eliminated under the biological treatment processes applied in the wastewater treatment plants and, consequently, they are continuously being discharged along with other drugs to the aquatic environment.
As a huge quantity and variety of drugs and their metabolites are continuously discharged to rivers and the sea, the compounds should be considered as contaminants that may possess risks to the aquatic ecosystem. Further studies are urgently needed on the environmental fate of the antihistamines and other pharmaceuticals in the aquatic environment. These studies should be concerned with the stability of the compounds, their transformation reactions and the identity of the transformation products, the distribution of drugs and their uptake and effects in organisms. On the basis of these studies, the possible environmental hazards of pharmaceuticals may be assessed.
The aggregation of metal bioaccumulation data was adopted for the French monitoring campaign. The influence of altitude, moss species-specific accumulation rates and urban emissions on the bioaccumulation is confirmed by international scientific publications. Nevertheless, the confounding factors in France differ from those derived from the German data, where the MMI was mainly associated to canopy drip effects and the growth patterns of the sampled mosses.
The Cu and the MMI maps give a comprehensive overview of the metal bioaccumulation in France without geographical gaps. Hence, this approach allows summarising the spatial patterns of eleven element loads in mosses by use of geostatistics and percentile statistics.
The presented metal integrating approach should be applied on data from past French moss surveys and on those to come. Additionally, the decision tree analyses should be carried out to examine possibly changing boundary conditions of the metal accumulation in mosses over time.
We tried to explain the relationship between fertilizer amendments and the activity of the enzymatic defense systems. When tobacco (N. tabacum) plants originating from different mutants were grown under field conditions with varying fertilizer application, the uptake of cadmium and zinc from soil increased with increasing biomass. Depending on Cd and Zn uptake, several antioxidant enzymes showed significantly different activities. Whereas SOD and CAT were usually elevated, several other enzymes, and isoforms of GST were strongly inhibited.
Heavy metal uptake represents severe stress to plants, and specific antioxidative enzymes are induced at the cost of more general reactions of the Halliwell-Asada cycle. In well-supplied plants, the glutathione level remains more or less unchanged. The lack of certain glutathione S-transferases upon exposure to heavy metals might be problematic in cases when organic pollutants coincide with heavy metal pollution. When planning phytoremediation of sites, mixed pollution scenarios have to be foreseen and plants should be selected according to both, their stress resistance and hyperaccumulative capacity.
It seems that non-knowledge leads to an epistemic no man's land, and, hence, hybrid regimes of knowledge emerge. These regimes are hybrid with respect to the unclear and not explicitly reflected strategies of evidence-making. By lacking of knowledge politics, this situation opens up 'windows of opportunity' for actors with special interests in risk policy fields like the GMO-debate. Therefore, there is a difference between the visible institutionalized structures of risk policies and the rather invisible hybrid regimes of knowledge. Structure and scope of expertise have to be reflected and new instruments of knowledge politics have to be designed.
Different epistemic cultures can be qualified by describing their particular strategies of evidence-making. To solve the conflicts between these strategies, a meta-expertise is needed. Besides the institutionalized settings of knowledge politics, the underlying hybrid regimes of knowledge have to be identified.
The concept of epistemic cultures and their strategies of evidence-making should be investigated more explicitly with respect to other risk policy fields The analysis of hybrid regimes of knowledge should be deepened by looking at the complex interactions between institutional, discursive and practical rules affecting risk assessment.
Highly humic tropical lagoons showed proportionally lower bacterial production rates and higher bacterial respiration rates (i.e., lower bacterial growth efficiency) than other lakes. Zooplankton showed similar delta(13)C to microalgae but not to humic DOC in these highly humic lagoons. Thus, the data reviewed here do not support the microbial loop as an efficient matter transfer pathway in highly humic ecosystems, where it is supposed to play its major role. In addition, we found that some tropical humic ecosystems presented the highest potential DOC photo-chemical mineralization (PM) rates reported in the literature, exceeding up to threefold the rates reported for temperate humic ecosystems. We propose that these atypically high PM rates are the result of a joint effect of the seasonal dynamics of allochthonous humic DOC input to these ecosystems and the high sunlight incidence throughout the year. The sunlight action on DOC is positive to microbial consumption in these highly humic lagoons, but little support is given to the enhancement of bacterial growth efficiency, since the labile photo-chemical products are mostly respired by microbes in the nutrient-poor humic waters.
HS may be an important source of energy for aquatic bacteria in humic waters, but it is probably not as important as a substrate to bacterial growth and to aquatic food webs, since HS consumption is mostly channeled through microbial respiration. This especially seems to be the case of humic-rich, nutrient-poor ecosystems, where the microbial loop was supposed to play its major role. Highly humic ecosystems also present the highest PM rates reported in the literature. Finally, light and bacteria can cooperate in order to enhance total carbon degradation in highly humic aquatic ecosystems but with limited effects on aquatic food webs.
More detailed studies using C- and N-stable isotope techniques and modeling approaches are needed to better understand the actual importance of HS to carbon cycling in highly humic waters.
The percentage conversion of HYP to AOX was similar to other published studies. Although a correlation of single compounds and AOX is difficult, chloroform was the predominant AOX. Generation of the volatile chloroform should be avoided due to possible adverse effects. The generation of dichloroacetic acid is of minor importance on account of biodegradation. Trichloroacetaldehyde and 1,1,1-trichloropropanone are weak mutagens and their formation should be avoided.
The generation of AOX and chlorinated DBPs can be minimised by reducing the concentrations of the organic materials in the effluents. The removal of organic matter before disinfection results in a decreased formation of AOX. HYP is an effective disinfectant; therefore, it should be used at low temperatures and concentrations to reduce the amount of AOX. If possible, disinfection should be accomplished by the use of no chlorine-containing agents. By this means, negative influences of HYP on the quality of wine can also be avoided.
Our results indicate that HYP has a high potential to form AOX in effluents of viticulture. The predominant by-products are chloroform, dichloroacetic acid and trichloroacetaldehyde. In further research, wastewaters from a winery and the in- and outflows of two sewage treatment plants were sampled during vintage and analysed. These results will be discussed in a following paper.
The modified YES proved to be a reliable system for the simultaneous quantification of yeast toxicity and estrogen receptor activation. Experimental results substantiate the available evidence for toxic masking as a relevant phenomenon in estrogenicity assessment of complex environmental samples. Synergistic modulation of estrogenic activity by non-estrogenic confounders might be of lower importance. The concept of concentration addition is discussed as a valuable tool for estrogenicity assessment of complex mixtures, with deviations of the measured joint estrogenicity from predictions indicating the need for refined analyses.
Two major challenges are to be considered simultaneously for a reliable analysis of the estrogenic activity of complex mixtures: the identification of known and suspected estrogenic compounds in the sample as well as the substance- and effect-level-dependent confounding impact of non-estrogenic toxicants.
The application of screening assays such as the YES to complex mixtures should be accompanied by measures that safeguard against false negative results which may be caused by non-estrogenic but toxic confounders. Simultaneous assessments of estrogenicity and toxicity are generally advisable.
Anthropogenic activities occur mainly in rural and urban environments. For long lasting periods of human history, human activities mainly were focused on hunting and agriculture, but since industrialization, urbanized areas became increasingly important for the material and energy fluxes of earth. Thus, it seems appropriate to classify the anthroposphere into an agriculturally and an urban-dominated sphere, which are the agrosphere (Krishna 2003) and the astysphere (introduced by Norra 2007).
We have to realize that urban systems are deposits, consumers, and transformers of resources interacting among each other and forming a network around the globe. Since the future of human mankind depends on the sustainable use of available resources, only a global and holistic view of the cross-linked urban systems forming together the astysphere provide the necessary geoscientific background understanding for global urban material and energy fluxes. If we want to ensure worth-living conditions for future generations of mankind, we have to develop global models of the future needs for resources by the global metasystem of urban systems, called astysphere.
The final vision for geoscientific research on the astysphere must be to design models describing the global process of urbanization of the earth and the development of the astysphere with respect to fluxes of materials, elements, and energy as well as with respect to the forming of the earth's face. Besides that, just from the viewpoint of fundamental research, the geoscientific concept of spheres has to be complemented by the astysphere if this concept shall fully represent the system earth.
We believe that microsurgical techniques are an important component for successful vascular reconstruction after iatrogenic artery thrombosis in an infant. Microvascular techniques allow for a controlled operating field with magnification, thereby assisting in the accuracy of vessel repair.
The presence of LGE cannot rule out tako-tsubo cardiomyopathy. Instead it defines a special subgroup of patients with a disproportionate increase of extracellular matrix.
Cardiovascular magnetic resonance, even with few subjects, allows a genetic assessment of cardiac structures that cannot be attained with echocardiography. Hitherto fore unappreciated relationships can be uncovered by this method.
In this morphological analysis of more than 250 hearts, CBs are a frequent component of phenotypically expressed HCM, and more common than in other disorders with or without LV hypertrophy. Although no systematic association with HCM-related sudden death is evident, our findings do not exclude the possibility that CB could contribute to increased risk in some individual patients, potentially impacting management decision-making on a case-by-case basis.
Electrocardiogram diagnosis of post-operative myocardial injury after CABG does not independently predict an increased risk of 5-year mortality or HLOS. Conversely, cTnI is independently associated with an increased risk of mortality and prolonged HLOS.
Remodelling occurs in post-AMI in elderly patients with normal LV function. Echo-Doppler variables at baseline have prognostic implications. Treatment with perindopril reduces progressive LV remodelling that can occur even in the case of small infarct size.
When applied at reperfusion, BAY-58 is an effective cardioprotective agent with a mechanism similar to that of ischaemic pre-conditioning and, hence, should be a candidate for treatment of acute myocardial infarction in man.
Increases in BW after hospitalization for worsening HF was predictive of repeat hospitalization events, but not mortality in the post-discharge period.
Our analysis among healthy Caucasian men and women from three independent studies does not support an association between the T111I variant and HDL-C, other plasma lipids, or risk of CHD.
Our study shows that exposure to ultrafine particles is associated with autonomic dysregulation in selected patients with myocardial infarction. More severe arrhythmias occur at the highest exposures to larger particles. Nevertheless, the underlying mechanisms remain hypothetical because inflammation may be evoked by PM or be related to the disease itself.
These data suggest that the -34T&gt;A CALM3 polymorphism is a modifier gene for FHC, potentially by affecting expression level of CALM3 and therefore Ca(2+)-handling and development of hypertrophy.
The 5-year follow-up is consistent with the 30-day outcomes of the trial, showing similar mortality for primary percutaneous coronary intervention and a policy of pre-hospital lysis followed by transfer to an interventional center. In addition, for patients treated within 2 h of symptom onset, 5-year mortality was lower with pre-hospital lysis.
The ENCORE II trial demonstrates in a multi-centre setting that calcium channel blockade with nifedipine for up to 2 years improves coronary endothelial function on top of statin treatment, but did not show an effect of nifedipine on plaque volume.
This is the first study to validate the new 3D-STE technique for LV volume measurements and demonstrate its superior accuracy and reproducibility over previously used 2D-STE technique.
Ischaemic secondary prevention ICD recipients exhibit a high recurrence rate of potentially life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. Factors that increase risk can be identified but, even with these factors, it was not possible to distinguish a recurrence-free group.
(1) A slightly incomplete dorsal vocal fold adduction is a first condition for inducing an hourglass vibration pattern. (2) A limited collision zone is only possible with a small degree of curving of the rest position of the vocal fold edges in their ventral portion. This is an anatomical characteristic of the adult female larynx. Muscular fatigue and resulting hypotonia seem to enhance this curving. (3) If both these conditions are fulfilled, a sufficient vibration amplitude is required to achieve a localized impact. (4) This third condition can be obtained by an increased subglottal pressure and/or by a decrease in active stress of the tension forces between the neighboring vocalis masses. These last aspects incorporate muscular tension imbalance (dyskinesia) and behavioral aspects in the modelling process. Decrease in active stress is a possible effect of fatigue, and increase in subglottal pressure a result of effort compensation.
Objective acoustic-phonetic analysis of speech of patients is feasible and contributes to further development of a speech assessment protocol.
Our results indicate that ex vivo expanded cytotoxic CD1d-restricted T cells and alpha-GalCer may represent a new immunotherapeutic tool for treatment of CD1d(+) hematologic malignancies.
The prognosis of biphenotypic acute leukemia patients is poor when compared with de novo acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Biphenotypic acute leukemia patients showed a much higher incidence of CD34 antigen expression, complex abnormal karyotype, extramedullary infiltration, relapse, and resistance to therapy after relapse.
Imbalance of effector and regulatory CD4 T cells is a signature of graft-versus-host disease in this transplantation protocol.
Patients with essential thrombocythemia had higher number of circulating microparticles with platelet and endothelial markers, suggesting ongoing platelet and endothelial activation. This was confirmed by an increased level of mature von Willebrand factor, an abnormal mature von Willebrand factor/propeptide ratio, and a hypercoagulable state reflected in thrombin generation. These findings suggest a role for microparticles in thrombosis in essential thrombocythemia.
These results reinforce the proposal of using bortezomib in the prevention of graft versus host disease and, moreover, in the generation of regulatory T-cell populations, that could be used in the treatment of multiple T-cell mediated diseases.
This work provides the first demonstration that targeting cdk is effective against anaplastic large cell lymphoma cells, and proves the critical role of NPM-ALK in the regulation of responsiveness of tumor cells with cdk dysregulation.
The ability of phenoxodiol to kill rapidly proliferating lymphocytes makes this drug a promising candidate for the treatment of pathologically-activated lymphocytes such as those in acute lymphoid leukemia, or diseases driven by T-cell proliferation such as auto-immune diseases and graft-versus-host disease.
Dual-hit lymphoma/leukemia is a rare but distinct mature B-cell neoplasm with an extremely poor prognosis characterized by frequent extranodal involvement and central nervous system progression with either of the translocation partners of MYC.
Together, these results indicate that mammalian target of rapamycin activity is essential for expansion of CD34(+) hematopoietic progenitor cells during myelopoiesis. Modulation of the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway may be of benefit in the design of new therapies to control hematologic malignancies.
The correlation between LS and liver fibrosis was confirmed by the objective measurement of fibrosis area. ALT was significantly correlated with LS, suggesting that inflammatory activity also affects LS values. Despite some limitation, LS measurement is a useful method for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis.
The present study confirmed the limitation of serum aminotransferase levels as markers of HCV for primary screening. Therefore, at present, an anti-HCV antibody test is required for the efficient screening of HCV carriers in all health examinations.
A number of virological factors have been defined that may distinguish FH-T from AHB in a case-control study. The pathogenic mechanism of FHB between transient HBV infection and AE of ASC would be different.
Our findings suggest that liver disease is more advanced in HIV-HCV co-infected patients than in HCV mono-infected patients, and interferon treatment may retard the progression of liver disease in such patients.
Colestimide seems to increase the efficacy of lifestyle modification in NASH patients with hyperlipidemia. Its beneficial effects were more prominent in NASH patients with moderate to severe histological steatosis.
The TBX21 promoter polymorphisms do not appear to be determinant of disease progression in Chinese HBV carriers. The T-1993C polymorphism in the TBX21 promoter influences susceptibility to persistent HBV infection.
Ischemic hepatitis is a common complication in septic shock patients, associated with a high mortality.
In patients with advanced cirrhosis, peripheral blood monocytes spontaneously produce proinflammatory cytokines, presumably in response to unrestricted TLR signaling.
Lack of adiponectin enhanced, and adiponectin administration prevented steatohepatitis progression in mice. These changes were due to the anti-oxidative effects of adiponectin, and its effects on Kupffer cells recruitment and phenotype polarization. Augmentation of adiponectin effects could be a useful preventive approach for NASH progression.
CDU can be performed repeatedly and is useful for evaluating the therapeutic effects of treatments for rectal varices.
HBV and HCV can replicate in the same cell without evidence for direct interference in vitro. Therefore, the viral interference observed in coinfected patients is probably due to indirect mechanisms mediated by innate and/or adaptive host immune responses. These findings provide new insights into the pathogenesis of HBV-HCV coinfection and may contribute to its clinical management in the future.
These findings implicate apoB100 as a molecular link between lipid-induced ER stress and hepatic insulin resistance.
Ossabaw pigs fed a modified atherogenic diet develop severe metabolic syndrome and abnormal liver histology with close resemblance to human nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
This finding might explain the mechanism of resistance to mTOR inhibitors in cancer treatments and strongly suggests that the inhibition of S6K1 could protect against acute liver failure and, in combination with inhibitors that abrogate the sustained activation of Akt and ERK, could improve the efficacy of hepatocarcinoma (HCC) treatment.
The results of this study provide proof of the concept that L-ornithine and phenylbutyrate/phenylacetate act synergistically to produce sustained improvement in arterial ammonia, its brain metabolism, and brain water in cirrhotic rats.
Monocyte overactivation and inability of cT-regs and tT-regs to restrain it may contribute to the loss of immune tolerance and perpetuation of the autoimmune attack in AILD.
A combination of specific HCV inhibitors with statins may result in a more profound antiviral effect and may delay or prevent the development of resistance to such inhibitors.
Our data highlight an important role of miR-195 in cell cycle control and in the molecular etiology of HCC, and implicate the potential application of miR-195 in cancer therapy.
HIF1alpha levels increase significantly after treatment of hepatocytes and hepatoma cells with OSM, and HIF1alpha contributes to OSM downstream signaling events, pointing to a cross-talk between cytokine and hypoxia signaling in processes such as liver development and regeneration.
TLR3 plays an inhibitory role in the priming of liver regeneration, thus reinforcing the role of the innate immune system in balancing tissue regeneration.
Our results indicate that CCR2 promotes HSC chemotaxis and the development of hepatic fibrosis.
Diet may be an important and potentially modifiable determinant of liver disease.
These data show that the inhibitory effect of dextrose supplementation on liver regeneration is associated with increased expression of C/EBPalpha, p21, and p27, and decreased expression of FoxM1, and that D10-mediated inhibition of liver regeneration is abrogated in p21-deficient animals. Our observations are consistent with a model in which hepatic sufficiency is defined by homeostasis between the energy-generating capacity of the liver and the energy demands of the body mass, with liver regeneration initiated when the functional liver mass is no longer sufficient to meet such demand.
Depending on the cause of liver damage, a predominance of TGF-beta or IL-13 signaling is found. TGF-beta1 predominance is detected in HBV-related liver fibrogenesis and IL-13 predominance in chronic HCV infection. In some instances, the underlying fibrogenic mediator remains enigmatic.
We demonstrate in this study that overexpression of CHD1L could sustain tumor cell survival by preventing Nur77-mediated apoptosis.
Hsp90 constitutes a promising therapeutic target in HCC. Non-quinone Hsp90 inhibitors exhibit tumor-specific accumulation and exert potent antineoplastic activity without causing significant hepatotoxicity.
These studies demonstrate a previously unrecognized role of ACs in biliary pathophysiology. In fact: (1) AC isoforms are differentially expressed in cholangiocyte subpopulations; (2) AC8, AC9, and sAC mediate cholangiocyte secretion in response to secretin, beta-adrenergic agonists, or changes in [HCO(3)(-)](i), respectively; and (3) AC gene expression is modulated in experimental cholestasis.
Lifestyle counseling interventions are effective in improving physical activity behavior. Maintaining or increasing physical activity provides health benefits for patients with fatty liver, independent of changes in weight.
These findings suggest that the identified single-nucleotide polymorphism can accelerate the onset of the end-stage liver disease associated with alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency and underscore the contribution of biosynthetic quality control as a modifier of genetic disease.
These data indicate that inhibiting GSL synthesis ameliorates the liver pathology associated with obesity and diabetes, and may represent a novel strategy for treating fatty liver disease and NASH.
Our results demonstrate an antiviral effect of the circulating liver PCSK9 on HCV in cells and show that PCSK9 down-regulates the level of mouse liver CD81 expression in vivo. Therefore, we propose that the plasma level and/or activity of PCSK9 may modulate HCV infectivity in humans.
An increased level of CsA resistance is associated with distinct mutations in the NS5B gene that increase RNA binding in the presence of CsA, and the intramolecular communications between residues of the thumb and the C-terminal domains are important for HCV replicase function.
UDCA-LPE, which targeted the liver in vivo, elicited potent biological activities in vitro by stimulating hepatocyte growth and by inhibiting TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis. Thus, UDCA-LPE may be suitable for evaluation of treatment efficacy in NASH.
An aberrant type-I IFN response seen exclusively in HIV-infected individuals could be responsible for the poor therapeutic response experienced by HIV/HCV coinfected individuals receiving interferon-alpha-based current standard of care.
Inflammatory Gr1(+) monocytes, recruited into the injured liver via CCR2-dependent bone marrow egress, promote the progression of liver fibrosis. Thus, they may represent an interesting novel target for antifibrotic strategies.
For male compound heterozygotes, mean iron indices do not change during middle age but for female compound heterozygotes menopause results in increased mean SF. Although compound heterozygotes might maintain elevated iron indices during middle age, documented iron overload-related disease is rare.
L-Ornithine and phenylacetate act synergistically to successfully attenuate increases in arterial ammonia, which is accompanied by a significant decrease in extracellular brain ammonia and prevention of intracranial hypertension in pigs with ALF.
BMI modulates the IGF-I response to GH, suggesting that GH sensitivity may be influenced by the nutritional status in children with ISS and normal body weight.
The -G1245A SNP appeared to be a marker for the well-known -841(CA)(n)/192 bp polymorphism. Haplotype 2, of which the -1245 A allele was the marker, was associated with a smaller head circumference SDS during spontaneous postnatal growth, but not during GH treatment.
The variations in HSD11B1 were not associated with susceptibility to type 2 diabetes or metabolic phenotypes in Koreans. However, the common promoter variants of the gene might exert a polymorphic regulatory effect on HSD11B1 expression.
These data emphasize that plasma visfatin concentrations are lower in patients with type 1 DM and related to glycemic control reflected by HbA1c.
In SGA, unlike in GHD, the insulin resistance caused by GH treatment appears to be diminished by the GH-induced increase in muscle mass and decrease in fat mass.
These findings indicate that administration of the IGF-I/IGFBP-3 complex increases circulating leptin concentrations in short prepubertal, small for gestational age children, suggesting that IGF-I and/or IGFBP-3 may stimulate leptin secretion by adipose tissue.
This study provides the first evidence that female predominance of CAT strongly increases during puberty, suggesting a major role for sex hormones in this phenomenon. Further studies are needed to clarify this point.
The IGF-I response during the IGF-I gen seems to reflect the GH status in children.
The data indicate that exercise training during HD exerts a beneficial effect on the levels of the vasoactive eicosanoid hormone-like substances in patients on HD.
Although the number of patients is relatively small, the data of this study indicate that laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is effective in weight reduction, being an acceptable surgical option for morbidly obese patients. A higher number of patients and longer follow-up period will be necessary to evaluate long-term efficacy.
Micro- and macrovascular complications and inadequate glycaemic control are significant predictors of resource use in people with type 2 diabetes of developing countries. This knowledge confirms the health economic importance of early diagnosis of diabetes, education of patients and glycaemic control.
Patients are not being transitioned to additional OADs in a stepwise fashion and/or are receiving inadequate titration on current OAD regimens. The low rate of HbA(1c) testing and rates of control are contributing factors.
Precardioversion use of RAS blockers may reduce ARAF following successful cardioversion of AF, but did not improve electrical cardioversion.
The contribution of CVD to the pathogenesis of various NPS is still debated. Our study, based on patients diagnosed with AD in a memory clinic setting, suggests that there is no relationship between the extent of CVD pathology and neuropsychiatric and behavioural measures in AD patients. Further prospective quantitative studies are needed to assess the role of CVD, if any, in neuropsychiatric and behavioural symptoms in AD. It is possible that the relatively small pathological contribution of CVD to the development of these symptoms is obscured by the effect of the wider neurodegeneration encountered in AD.
Atomoxetine is cost-effective and may have advantages over stimulants, including benefits to HRQL and no abuse liability and is the only treatment in the UK licensed for continued treatment into adulthood in adolescents who have shown a response from treatment.
As the presence of PPS is associated with poorer outcomes in East Asian MDD patients, clinical management should aim to address both the mental and PPS associated with MDD.
The available data suggest that balneotherapy may be truly associated with improvement in several rheumatological diseases. However, existing research is not sufficiently strong to draw firm conclusions.
Substantial differences exist, both between and within therapeutic classes, in the behavioural toxicity of medications used for SAD.
Methadone is an important opioid analgesic at step 3 of the WHO analgesic ladder. Future controlled studies may focus on establishment of methadone equianalgesic dose ratio with other opioids and its role as the first strong opioid in comparative studies with analgesia, adverse effects and quality of life taken into consideration.
Polypharmacy, hypoalbuminaemia and low eGFR are independently associated with the ARS. Patients with a higher ARS are also prescribed higher doses of anticholinergic medications than those with lower ARS.
The advantages of gluing the skin are that it is quick, saves theatre time, cheap, no stitches to remove and is waterproof. The disadvantage being it can be messy if not applied correctly.
High fever, sore throat, rheumatoid rash, polyarthritis, hyperferritinaemia (&gt;or= 1000 ng/ml), leucocytosis with a neutrophilic predominance, anaemia and hypoalbuminaemia were remarkable observations in the initial examination.
The present data suggests that parental consanguinity has no effect on disease severity, and the frequency of consanguinity is not increased among the parents of patients with RA. A possible exception is the earlier disease onset and age at diagnosis which needs to be confirmed by larger studies.
The extract induced histopathologic alterations in the skin, probably as a result of the presence of active toxic metabolites.
Improved healthcare provider education is needed to ensure judicious antidermatophyte drug management. Further studies, including proven diagnoses via fungal microscopy and culture, are needed to explain the prevalence discrepancy of tinea capitis among black children and tinea unguium in older adults, focusing on preventable risk factors.
CD10 is useful for distinguishing between BCC with widespread follicular differentiation and trichoblastomas.
Despite the bias present in this study, linked to the nature and source of the data, we believe that the figures found in this report are comparable with those obtained in the international literature from other Mediterranean countries.
Although many authors have considered ID to be a form of childhood dermatitis, we have described four cases that fulfilled the major criteria for ID, except for onset in adulthood.
Glucantime is still effective against Old World cutaneous leishmaniasis when used in the doses recommended by WHO.
TLS is an uncommon, but potentially life-threatening, complication in melanoma and other solid tumors. It is important for oncologists to recognize this complication and prevent its development if bulky metastatic disease and several pre-existing risk factors, such as multiple and bulky liver metastases, elevated lactate dehydrogenase, and hyperuricemia, are present.
The prevalence of MS, JMS, and diabetes increases through the quartiles of WBC in Japanese men and women. Thus, WBC may be useful as a marker of cardiovascular disease risk.
The constellation of signs and symptoms and neuroimaging characteristics in previous reports and the six additional cases described here with neuropathological data and findings of MR spectroscopy appears unique enough to be termed "diabetic striatopathy." This syndrome appears in poorly controlled diabetics due to obliterative vasculopathy with prominent vascular proliferation, vulnerability to which is restricted to the striatum.
Dynamic macromolecular contrast-enhanced CT can be used to monitor serial decreases in tumor microvessel leakiness induced by repeated doses of an angiogenesis inhibitor drug.
The maturation of callosal motor fiber connectivity seems to reflect the degree of interhemispheric inhibition between the motor cortices with anisotropy of callosal motor fibers being a potential marker for motor development.
Compared with volumetric measurements, DWI of the viable tumor parts could be used to discriminate between the effects of 2 different dosages at an earlier time point than volumetric measurements in an animal model in vivo. This method could be especially useful for monitoring drug effects in phase I/II clinical trials.
Global EF analysis of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging by CIM showed high agreement with the commonly used Argus postprocessing tool. Furthermore, CIM is capable of evaluating regional EF with good agreement in comparison with the current visual method. In addition to determining abnormal versus normal cardiac wall motion, CIM is able to add to the analysis a quantitative regional EF for each given segment. As a semi-automated tool, CIM has the potential to reduce reviewer variability and decrease the time required for analysis. In the future, CIM can potentially quantitatively track global and regional changes in patients with heart disease and aid the clinical management throughout the course of the disease.
DEBR provides significant advantages, even over manually corrected SBBR. As it works completely automatically, it can effectively help to cope with the data load of CT angiography exams. Furthermore, it enables the removal of intraluminal plaques, which provides a benefit for the estimation of the residual lumen.
Tea consumption can protect against PD and this protective effect is clearer in Chinese populations. The low rate of tea consumption among persons with PD should provide us many valuable insights into the nature of the illness.
Canadian children, 4-7 years of age and not living near a marine environment, have relatively low dietary intakes of AA and DHA. Retinal and neuronal development continues throughout childhood, therefore it is conceivable that low intake of AA and DHA may have a negative impact.
This study supports the hypothesis that the inclusion of water soluble cinnamon compounds in the diet could reduce risk factors associated with diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
In this sample of adult men and women in France, higher HEI scores were associated with healthier lifestyles and higher socioeconomic status. However, HEI scores were only weakly linked to health parameters or to body weight. Linking diet quality to health outcomes is a continuing challenge.
Despite its relatively high GI, MWF could provide health benefits by improving the management of hunger feeling in the morning and by moderately improving insulin economy, which could be of interest for type 2 diabetic subjects. GI is not, therefore, the sole parameter reflecting the nutritional quality of cereal products.
These findings suggest that, in non-obese adults, decrements in iron status are not associated with increasing adiposity.
These results show that the expected body fat-lowering effect of trans-10,cis-12 CLA, observed in young rodents, is not found in adult hamsters. The lack of increase in liver fatty acid oxidation, help to explain why that effect was not found in these animals. Further, the CLA treatment-induced hepatomegaly is a consequence of hyperplasia.
The levels of multiple nutrients including folate, 11 elements and homocysteine may be associated with the risk of anembryonic pregnancy.
Dietary supplementation of antioxidants at 900 mg/day for 4 weeks did not change the blood biomarkers of inflammation and disease severity of RA patients under conventional medical treatments. Further considerations for dose-response relationships, duration of supplementation, and susceptible biomarkers are required.
The results support previous research showing that the message to increase steps/day results in an increase in physical activity. The results demonstrate for the first time that the message to reduce intake by 100 kcal/day does actually result in a lower intake in the short term. People seem to be able to make positive changes in diet and physical activity in response to these messages. If these small changes can be sustained, this approach could be effective in preventing further weight gain in the population.
For those individuals who do not consume dairy products, we need to better understand the barriers to consuming specific dairy products. In addition, more research is needed to examine whether food-based recommendations are practical, feasible and cost effective to meet nutrient needs.
Infant formula consumption may be associated with an increased risk of developing at least some detectable level of enamel fluorosis, which depends on the level of fluoride in the water supply. The evidence that the fluoride in the infant formula caused enamel fluorosis was weak, as other mechanisms could explain the observed association.
This study's findings suggest that molars with fluorosis are more resistant to caries than are molars without fluorosis.
The results highlight the need for those considering policies regarding reduction in fluoride exposure to take into consideration the caries-preventive benefits associated with milder forms of enamel fluorosis.
Clinicians should take a careful history when evaluating patients with ONJ because ONJ may result from one or more factors.
The conversion of the iBond Gluma inside and Clearfil S3 Bond adhesive systems into two-step systems by means of applying an extra hydrophobic adhesive layer improved the clinical performance of these materials after 18 months of clinical service.
The application of an extra hydrophobic adhesive layer over OSSE adhesive systems, layers improved the OSSE systems clinical performance, mainly in terms of retention rate.
The study results show that the type of provider is a significant determinant of whether children received comprehensive restorative and surgical services. The results suggest that current policies that support preventive care-only programs may achieve increased access to preventive care for Medicaid-enrolled children in Wayne County, but they do not provide access to adequate comprehensive dental care.
Dental care-related anxiety, fear of dental pain and avoidance of dental care may be influenced by genetic variations.
Dentists should evaluate all patients, but especially those with naturally red hair, for dental care-related anxiety and use appropriate modalities to manage the patients' anxiety.
Both original-flavor and sour versions of candies are potentially erosive, with sour candies being of greater concern. Although saliva might protect against the erosive effects of original-flavor candies, it is much less likely to protect against the erosive effects of sour candies.
People at risk of developing candy-associated erosion, particularly those with a high intake of candy, pocketing behaviors or decreased salivary flow, should receive preventive guidance regarding candy-consuming habits.
The findings provide some evidence for the utility and safety of a Res-Care intervention in terms of improving function in NH residents.
High BP was associated with greater risk of cognitive impairment in persons younger than 75 but with better cognitive function in older persons. Age-specific guidelines for BP management are needed, because the current directive that "lower is better" may not apply to BP levels in the very old.
This small study suggests that excessive sleepiness is not normal in healthy older adults. Symptoms of excessive sleepiness in this population, including reliance on caffeine to maintain alertness, should be evaluated and treated. Further study is needed to determine whether daytime sleepiness in middle-old (75-84 years) and old-old (&gt; or = 85) adults is normal or is instead associated with sleep restriction, undiagnosed sleep disorders, medication side effects, mood disorders, or other medical disorders that disrupt sleep.
Nearly half of Indiana Medicaid recipients with dementia residing in nursing homes who were taking cholinesterase inhibitors in 2004 were using anticholinergics concomitantly. Patterns of concomitant use in the population examined may assist practitioners in reviewing their prescribing decisions for this vulnerable population.
In this group of older male veterans, multicomponent PA significantly improved rapid gait and PA. Translation from increased PA to overall functioning was not observed. Integration with primary care was successful.
Self-reports may be most reliable for diabetes mellitus and least reliable for depression for surveys involving older, inner-city adults. Survey research with older adults should include confirmatory data when assessing presence of depression, hypertension, and asthma.
There is evidence that PUs and PU interventions have a significant impact on HRQL and cause substantial burden to patients.
In a representative sample of middle-aged and older adults, nonprescription use of prescription pain relievers is relatively uncommon, but the much higher use by middle-aged adults suggests that, as this cohort ages, the problem may increase in elderly people.
HCPs of NH patients with advanced dementia can most commonly expect to encounter medical decisions relating to feeding problems, infections, and pain. Inadequate support from NH providers is the greatest source of HCP dissatisfaction with decision-making. Greater resident comfort and care in a special care dementia unit are potentially modifiable factors associated with greater decision-making satisfaction.
There is substantial concomitant use of prescription drugs and dietary supplements in elderly people. Further investigations are needed to define the clinical importance of this concomitant use, especially in elderly patients who consume multiple prescription drugs or have experienced an adverse event secondary to their prescription medications.
Bruises that occur as a result of physical elder mistreatment are often large (&gt;5 cm) and on the face, lateral right arm, or posterior torso. Older adults with bruises should be asked about the cause of the bruises to help ascertain whether physical abuse occurred.
Inflammation in the periodontium in early old age tends to be associated with mortality in older age.
A rule derived from five readily available variables predicts mortality in infected elderly ED patients and allows identification of a large low-risk subgroup.
Higher IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-2 are associated with lower adiposity and decreased glucose tolerance but also with greater all-cause mortality. Higher levels of serum IGF-1 binding protein (IGFBP) may indicate greater IGF-1 activity and thus represent an association between higher IGF-1 activity and mortality in humans.
Manual oral brushing, 0.12% chlorhexidine oral rinse, and upright feeding positioning demonstrated high feasibility, high staff adherence, and effectiveness in pneumonia risk factor reduction. A protocol combining these components warrants testing for its ability to reduce pneumonia in nursing home residents.
An educational program for nursing staff combined with consultation with a nurse specialist (RN level) had no effect on the use of physical restraints with psychogeriatric nursing home residents. In addition to restraint education and consultation, new measures to reduce the use of physical restraints with psychogeriatric nursing home residents should be developed.
We found minimal evidence to support the use of ropivacaine infusion for improving outcomes following rotator cuff surgery in the setting of preemptive ropivacaine and intraoperative parecoxib.
Use of a locked volar plate predictably leads to better patient-reported outcomes (DASH scores) in the first three months after fixation. However, at six months and one year, the outcomes of all three techniques evaluated in this study were found to be excellent, with minimal differences among them in terms of strength, motion, and radiographic alignment.
This study suggests that the Trabecular Metal component may be an effective alternative to the standard cemented tibial component.
The long-term results demonstrate excellent survivorship, with revision as the end point, for both the metal-backed and the all-polyethylene tibial component designs with no differences noted between the two.
Our findings indicate that favorable outcomes can be anticipated in the majority of patients after arthroscopic SLAP lesion repair. While only three of four patients overall may be capable of returning fully to their previous level of competition, patients with a distinct traumatic etiology have a greater likelihood of a successful return to sports.
Compared with an iliac crest bone graft, the combination of an absorbable collagen sponge soaked with rhBMP-2 and ceramic granules resulted in trends toward improvements in clinical outcomes and toward a higher rate of radiographic fusion. This combination of an osteoinductive agent with an osteoconductive matrix may be an effective replacement for autograft in single-level posterolateral lumbar arthrodeses with instrumentation.
The usage of total hip arthroplasty bearings varies considerably by patient characteristics, hospital type, and geographic location throughout the United States. Despite uncertain advantages in older patients, hard-on-hard bearings are commonly used in patients over the age of sixty-five years. Further study is necessary to define the appropriate indications for these advanced technologies in total hip arthroplasty.
Regardless of diabetes type, patients with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus exhibited significantly increased odds of surgical and systemic complications, higher mortality, and increased length of stay during the index hospitalization following lower extremity total joint arthroplasty.
Mild pain can be expected after saddle-horn injury despite successful surgical treatment, and the injury does not preclude a return to previous employment or riding horses. A high proportion of men experience erectile dysfunction, which is unlikely to respond well to pharmacologic therapy.
Postoperative incomplete reduction of the sesamoids can be a risk factor for the recurrence of hallux valgus. The identification of incomplete reduction of the sesamoids intraoperatively may allow modification of surgical procedures and improvement of the surgical results.
After osteoarticular resection of destructive tumors of the proximal part of the tibia, an allograft-prosthetic composite reconstruction can provide consistently good functional results with an acceptably low complication rate. Technical aspects of the procedure that may favorably affect outcome include soft-tissue coverage with muscle flaps and rigid fixation with a long-stemmed implant.
Neurologic injury during VEPTR surgery occurs much more frequently in the upper extremities than in the lower extremities. The rates of potential neurologic injuries (neurologic injuries plus instances of changes detected by monitoring) during primary implantation of the VEPTR (2.8%) and during exchange of the VEPTR (1.3%) justify the use of intraoperative neuromonitoring of the upper and lower extremities during those procedures. As neuromonitoring did not demonstrate any changes in children without a previous VEPTR-related monitoring change and there were no neurologic injuries during more than 1000 VEPTR-lengthening procedures, intraoperative neuromonitoring may not be necessary during those procedures in children without a history of a neurologic deficit during VEPTR surgery.
Because cable trochanteric attachment led to significantly greater polyethylene wear, osteolysis, acetabular loosening, and acetabular revision, presumably due to third-body metallic debris generation in this cemented total hip replacement construct, surgeons should be aware of the deleterious effects of third-body debris and avoid the use of potential debris generators in the total hip arthroplasty construct. If cable is used and fretting is recognized, especially with intra-articular migration of metallic material or nonunion of the greater trochanter, consideration should be given to cable removal.
Fixing both tibiofibular joints with a single Ilizarov wire decreases proximal tibiofibular joint distraction; however, more secure fixation would help to decrease the prevalence of delayed knee laxity. When tibial lengthening is performed over an intramedullary nail, avoiding proximal tibiofibular joint fixation will limit tibial valgus angulation. Limiting lengthening to &lt;25% will decrease the proportion of cases with knee laxity, and limiting lengthening to &lt;50% will significantly limit tibial valgus angulation.
Donor-site morbidity of a knee from which a graft has been harvested can potentially lead to functional impairment. In our study, the functional outcome of the knee was not affected by the number of donor grafts, the size of the donor grafts, or the age of the patient. Surgeons performing osteochondral transplantations and harvesting autografts from the knee should be aware of the potentially negative effect of a higher body mass index on clinical outcomes after surgery.
In this series, open repair with use of a locked plate resulted in better outcome scores than did hemiarthroplasty in similar patients, especially in those with a three-part fracture, despite a higher overall complication rate. Open reduction and internal fixation of fractures with an initial varus extension pattern should be approached with caution.
The spinal cord is significantly smaller in patients with congenital thoracic scoliosis than in normal controls. Because small spinal cords have been reported to be associated with neurological sequelae, we advise that the diminished spinal cord size be considered an important component of intraspinal anomalies associated with congenital scoliosis.
Our decision analytic model indicated that the optimum strategy, associated with the highest probability of having a non-arthritic hip at the age of sixty years, was to screen all neonates for hip dysplasia with a physical examination and to use ultrasonography selectively for infants who are at high risk. Additional data on the costs and cost-effectiveness of these screening policies are needed to guide policy recommendations.
Following a hip fracture, the prevention of decreases in muscle strength and power as well as a large asymmetrical deficit by the use of targeted pain management and rehabilitation may help to reduce the risk of subsequent mobility limitations and falls.
The axonal viability index yields an earlier and more specific prognostic estimation of obstetric brachial plexopathy than does the clinical criterion of biceps function, and we believe it may be useful in determining surgical indications in these patients.
Incongruity of the medial ulnohumeral joint becomes apparent radiographically only after overlengthening of the radius by &gt;or=6 mm. Intraoperative visualization of a gap in the lateral ulnohumeral joint is a reliable indicator of overlengthening following the insertion of a radial head prosthesis.
The financial return of an orthopaedic fellowship varies on the basis of the specialty chosen. While reasons to pursue fellowship training vary widely, and many are not financial, there are positive and negative financial incentives. Therefore, the decision to pursue fellowship training is best if it is not made on the basis of financial incentives. This information may assist policy makers in analyzing medical education economics to ensure the training of orthopaedic surgeons in all specialties and subspecialties.
Metabolic consequences of psychotropic medication are the most concerning aspect of medication treatment for patients, contributing to perceived morbidity, quality-of-life reduction, and reduced satisfaction with care. Despite the compelling database that underscores the hazards attributable to comorbid general medical conditions, most individuals with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder receive guideline-discordant care for somatic health conditions as well as for the principal psychiatric disorder. Barriers to somatic health care access for those with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, as well as the impact of targeted interventions, warrant future research.
Factors expressed on the surface of mature A. fumigatus hyphae that are controlled by StuA and MedA induce mast cell degranulation in the absence of IgE.
Two distinct relationships between age and KSHV infection among children imply that KSHV transmission among children is not uniform throughout Africa and is therefore not always responsible for the high seroprevalence observed in adults. There are at least 2 patterns of KSHV transmission in Africa.
The diversity of strains observed underscores the importance of studying the distribution of the vaccine antigen itself rather than relying on common epidemiological surrogates such as MLST.
Circumcision of men in this population did not reduce their risk of acquiring these nonulcerative STIs. Improved STI control will require more-effective STI management, including partner treatment and behavioral risk reduction counseling.
Three administrations of vaccine doses of 1 X 10(4) ffu and 1 X 10(5) ffu were safe. The 1 X 10(5)-ffu dose of 116E demonstrated a robust immune response after 3 administrations. These favorable results warrant further development of the vaccine candidate and provide optimism that vaccinating infants in the developing world will prevent serious sequelae of rotavirus infection. Clinical trials registration. NCT00439660 and ISRCTN57452882 .
Despite this vast diversity, restricted disease-associated var genes were identified and might be used for innovative interventions based on PfEMP1.
LE-inducible candidal virulence determinants, such as germination and enhanced biofilm production, may help to explain the increased risk of candidemia in patients receiving LE via medical catheters.
These data indicate that direct interaction between M. tuberculosis TLR2 ligands and CD4(+) T cells facilitated local CD4(+) T cell immune responses in patients with tuberculous pleurisy.
Unweighted and weighted rGSSs of 4 genotypic resistance algorithms were the strongest independent predictors of VR. Optimizing ARV weighting may further improve VR predictions.
Selection of resistant commensals during ciprofloxacin therapy is a frequent ecological side effect that is not preventable by dosage optimization. Trial registration. Clinical Trials.gov identifier: NCT00190151.
These results show evidence that RTS,S/AS02A maintained protection during the 45-month surveillance period, and they highlight the feasibility of developing an effective vaccine against malaria. In combination with other malaria-control measures, such a vaccine could greatly contribute to reducing the intolerable global burden of this disease. Trial registration. ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers NCT00197041 and NCT00323622 .
The RTS,S/AS01B malaria vaccine warrants comparative field trials with RTS,S/AS02A to determine the best formulation for the protection of children and infants. The association between complete protection and immune responses is a potential tool for further optimization of protection. Trial registration. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00075049.
These retrospective data suggest a significant survival benefit of early revascularization in elderly patients &gt; or = 75 years of age developing CS after AMI, albeit less as compared to those aged &lt; 75 years.
The present study validated the principles of endovascular contrast detection and demonstrated the feasibility of an in-vivo, catheter-based removal of contrast using reflectance technology.
LM trifurcation stenting carries an overall high rate of adverse events, mostly driven by a high TLR rate. Type A lesions and the number of stents placed predicted a higher combined endpoint of death, nonfatal MI and TLR. By logistic regression analysis, Type A lesions are the only independent predictors of the primary outcome.
While a majority of interventional cardiologists believe that NA exists, it remains a rare and poorly defined phenomenon. Although CCISC survey responders indicate that their patients with NA responded to medical therapy, further investigation of risk factors and safety is warranted.
In this real-word experience, no significant differences were found in the safety and efficacy profiles between SES and PES use in elderly patients.
Various types of cardiac rehabilitation in Korea were performed by researchers. Therefore, we need to develop the standard protocol, to add psychosocial intervention, and to study cost effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation.
Exercise combined with DHEA administration before steroid treatment prevents steroid induced muscle atrophy, with exercise combined with DHEA administration being more effective than DHEA administration alone in preventing muscle atrophy.
Theses findings provide strong empirical evidence for importance of task, organizational and social reward variables in explaining job satisfaction of nurses. The model used for this study will be useful for predicting nurse job satisfaction.
The findings of the study illustrated the participants' self-healing processes through interactions with the nature of the forest. Nursing interventions utilizing healing atmospheres such as "healing forest" programs can be considered helpful in providing a venue to alcoholics to reflect on their lives affirmatively.
Type-D is an important factor in quality of life in patients with CAD, but no correlations between type-D and illness intrusiveness were found. These results can be used as basic data for developing cardiac rehabilitation programs to improve quality of life in type-D patients.
Aroma inhalation could be a very effective stress management method for high school students. Therefore, it is recommended that this program be used in clinical practice as an effective nursing intervention for high school students.
Case management was effective for older people in the community. The effect might have resulted from individual, systematic intervention, however, standards of service including eligibility criteria for case management and collaboration of multi-disciplines is required for more effective home health service programs.
Based on greater involvement in smoking among first-year middle schoolers, smoking prevention strategies should be provided to elementary schoolers rather than middle schoolers. A risk-taking tendency and delinquent behaviors should be considered as proxy measures to detect the high-risk group for smoking initiation.
Health literacy is the main factor affecting health promotion among minority elders indicating a need to develop health promotion programs for elders who have low health literacy.
Hindlimb muscle atrophy occurs in the unaffected side after unilateral sciatic nerve injury, with changes in the plantaris and gastrocnemius muscle being more apparent than changes in the soleus muscle. These results have implications for nursing care, in the need to assess degree of muscle atrophy in unaffected muscles as well as affected muscles.
These results may contribute to a better understanding of loneliness in upper elementary school-age children. The results of the present study indicate a need to develop nursing interventions to prevent and manage children's loneliness.
The results of this study indicate that differences in the quality of services were related to organizational factors. It is necessary to consider not only individual factors but also higher-level organizational factors such as nurse' welfare and facility standards if quality of service in long term care hospitals is to be improved.
The results suggest that further studies are needed to identify rest-activity rhythm according to symptom severity and to develop nursing interventions which consider rest-activity rhythm.
Physical and psychological factors were significant predictors of both QOL and each subscale, and these factors correlated with each other. These results demonstrate the needs for early assessment and intervention from the start of chemotherapy to decrease symptoms and improve QOL.
This study constructed a model that addresses the factors related to adolescent substance use and explains the relationship of these factors in influencing substance use among Korean adolescents. Findings from this study can contribute to designing appropriate prevention strategies to reduce substance related disorders in adolescents.
This study leads us to conclude that LRRK2 mutations are a common cause of autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease in Europe and North Africa.
These results provide new insights into the pathways regulating telomere homeostasis in humans.
In our series, SPRED1 mutations occurred with a prevalence of 0.5% in NF1 patients and in 5% of NF1 patients displaying an NF1-like phenotype. SPRED1 mutated patients did not display any specific dermatologic features that were not present in NF1 patients, except for the absence of neurofibromas that seem to be a specific clinical feature of NF1. The exact phenotypic spectrum and the putative complications of this NF1 overlapping syndrome, in particular haematological malignancies, remain to be further characterised. NIH diagnostic criteria for NF1 must be revised in view of this newly characterised Legius syndrome in order to establish a specific genetic counselling.
These findings suggest a higher rate of LAM in TSC1 than previously recognised, as well as a fundamental difference in CT presentation between TSC1 and TSC2.
The replication of QTLs in regions of the genome that harbour well known candidate genes suggest that chromosomes 6p, 9q and 15q warrant further investigation with fine mapping for causative polymorphisms in American Indians.
Our data provide evidence in favour of the implication of FOXL2 variants in non-syndromic POF and confirm the regulatory interaction between FOXL2 and OSR2 whose perturbation might contribute to the palpebral abnormalities observed in BPES patients.
This study highlights that IA-2 as an autoantigen depends on HLA genotype and suggests new insights into the mechanism of loss of immune tolerance.
The high frequency of CFHR1 deletion in aHUS patients is restricted to the subgroups of patients presenting with anti-FH autoantibodies or, to a lesser degree, CFI mutation. These results suggest that the CFHR1 deletion plays a secondary role in susceptibility to aHUS.
Our results confirm that SFTPC mutations are a frequent cause of diffuse lung disease, and that I73T is the most frequent SFTPC mutation associated with diffuse lung disease.
The identification of SPRED1 gene mutation in NF1-like patients has major implications for counselling NF1 families.
These data have significant implications for the clinical diagnosis and management of other individuals with 17q21.31 deletions.
Our data suggest a novel function for wild-type huntingtin as a co-factor of LXR. However, this activity is lost by mutant huntingtin that only interacts weakly with LXR.
Weekend admission is not associated with significantly increased short-term mortality risk among patients hospitalized with SAH.
This new sensor device adequately measures coil insertion pressure. This system provides potentially safer and more reliable aneurysm embolizations.
The flexible self-expandable stents significantly altered flow velocity and also flow structure in these aneurysms. Overall flow alterations by the stent appeared favorable for the long-term durability of aneurysm embolization. The possibility that the placement of a low-profile self-expandable stent might induce unfavorable flow patterns such as a fast flow stream in the aneurysm dome cannot be excluded.
Signal intensity of the MCA on preoperative single-slab 3D time-of-flight MR angiography is useful for identifying patients at risk for cerebral ischemic events after CEA.
The data demonstrate that intranasal EPO plus IGF-I penetrates into the brain more efficiently than other drug delivery methods and could potentially provide a fast and efficient treatment to prevent chronic effects of stroke.
This systematic review revealed no significant association between lamina terminalis fenestration and a reduced incidence of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus. The interpretation of these results, however, is restricted by unmatched cohort differences as well as other inherent study limitations. Although the overall literature supports lamina terminalis fenestration, a number of authors have questioned the technique's benefits, thus rendering its efficacy in reducing shunt-dependent hydrocephalus unclear. A well-designed, multicenter, randomized controlled trial is needed to definitively address the efficacy of this microsurgical technique.
The authors confirmed the relevance of intracranial hypertension as a severe complication in patients with aSAH. Because high ICP is associated with a severely deranged cerebral metabolism and poor outcome, future studies focusing on metabolism-guided, optimized ICP therapy could help minimize secondary brain damage and improve prognosis in patients with aSAH.
Repeated PET scanning revealed improvements in CBF, perfusion pressure, and oxygen metabolism after CAS. In particular, the vascular reserve tended to improve gradually, while CBF, cerebral perfusion pressure, and CMRO2 increased rapidly and peaked soon after CAS. These results suggest that a large discrepancy between rapidly increased CBF, perfusion pressure, and a small increase in vascular reserve in the acute stage after CAS could cause hyperperfusion syndrome.
Higher mean ICH volumes at presentation were predictive of seizure, and the presence of late seizures was predictive of developing epilepsy. Most seizures occurred within 2 years of spontaneous ICH over a minimum of 3 years of follow-up.
Intraoperative rotational angiography performed in an integrated biplane angiography/surgery suite is a safe and useful adjunct to surgery and may enable combining endovascular and surgical procedures for the treatment of complex vascular lesions.
Onyx penetrates much smaller vessels than NBCA. Inflammation occurs with both embolic agents at equal frequency. Evidence of chronic foreign-body giant cells and recanalization after Onyx embolization shows a long-standing reaction to Onyx and raises questions about the permanence of occlusion after Onyx embolization.
The SAC-SWS technique seems to be a feasible and effective reconstructive treatment option for a ruptured VBA-DA. The technique may be considered as an alternative therapeutic option in selected patients with ruptured VBA-DAs unsuitable for internal trapping of the parent artery.
The HydroSoft coil appears feasible as a finishing coil based on the results of this animal study. HydroSoft coils inserted at the neck of the aneurysm may help induce neointima formation, which may lead to less coil compaction and aneurysm recanalization in clinical practice.
Despite the variations in treatment that undoubtedly exist between countries and continents, the location of treatment had minimal effect on outcome. Outcome was influenced mostly by clinical characteristics on admission such as neurological grade, patient age, and amount of SAH.
Semiautomatic tractography allows consistent and rapid demonstration of the descending motor pathways in patients with hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic intracranial vascular malformations. The technique allows the use of a comparatively low fractional anisotropy threshold and does not require the definition of multiple ROIs. These techniques may help to improve the clinical feasibility and potentially the reliability of tractography for the evaluation of patients with intracranial vascular malformations as well as other space-occupying lesions of the brain.
In patients with symptomatic CA occlusion, C-Port Flex-A-assisted high-flow EC-IC bypass surgery is a technically feasible procedure. The system needs further modification to achieve a faster and safer anastomosis to enable a conclusive comparison with standard and laser-assisted methods for high-flow bypass surgery.
This preliminary study showed that EPO seemed to reduce delayed cerebral ischemia following aSAH via decreasing severity of vasospasm and shortening impaired autoregulation.
The GM-CSF had neuroprotective effects in in vitro and in vivo experiments and resulted in decreased infarction volume and improved locomotor behavior. Although the specific mechanism involved in stroke recovery was not fully elucidated as it was not the primary focus of this study, administration of GM-CSF appeared to decrease the extent of neuronal apoptosis by modulating the expression of several apoptosis-related genes such as Bcl-2, Bax, caspase 3, and p53. Further investigations are necessary to better understand the role of GM-CSF on neural regeneration during the recovery phase of a stroke, as well as the intracellular signal transduction pathways that mediate neuroprotection.
A linear vein-based morphological pattern is common in pediatric AVMs and may recapitulate the embryological origins of the cerebral circulation. Surgical treatment in these cases can also be vein-based, through a narrow surgical corridor, which leads to minimal cortical disruption.
The evolution observed in the prevalence of craniosynostosis might result from several factors. An increased recruitment of patients at the center and an improvement in the diagnosis of craniosynostosis might explain the overall increase. However, other mechanisms should be examined to explain the great increase in the number of cases of trigonocephaly (environmental or pharmacological).
Patients presenting with secondary or multiple repeat TCS may benefit from surgical untethering.
In ventilation-treated patients with intracranial hypertension, ketamine effectively decreased ICP and prevented untoward ICP elevations during potentially distressing interventions, without lowering blood pressure and CPP. These results refute the notion that ketamine increases ICP. Ketamine is a safe and effective drug for patients with traumatic brain injury and intracranial hypertension, and it can possibly be used safely in trauma emergency situations.
The use of intermittent tapping of ventricular reservoirs in this population appears to lead to a lower incidence of permanent shunt placement than the use of VSG shunts. The incidence of infection during temporization and for the initial 6 months after conversion appears comparable for both groups. The apparent difference identified in this pilot study requires confirmation in a more rigorous study.
This study shows a rapid and more extensive decrease in ADC values after CSF diversion than is to be expected from physiological ADC decrease solely due to increasing patient age. The preoperative ADC increase can be explained by interstitial edema caused by transependymal CSF leakage or by vasogenic edema caused by capillary compression and stretching of the brain parenchyma. This study population of infants with (early recognized) hydrocephalus did not suffer from cytotoxic edema. These findings may help to detect patients at risk for cerebral damage by differentiating between progressive and compensated hydrocephalus.
High stathmin expression correlates with tumor dissemination, is an important prognostic factor of medulloblastoma, and may serve as a useful marker for more intensive adjuvant therapies.
Although the presence of a thin wall supports the diagnosis of a benign pineal cyst, fine internal septations or small internal cysts are common on high-resolution MR imaging and this finding should not be considered evidence of an underlying tumor. It is typical for pineal cysts to have relaxation times that differ from CSF as determined by FLAIR imaging.
The authors' results suggest that body casting has utility for appropriately selected patients; that is, those with smaller, flexible spinal curves. Bracing had limited utility, with high levels of progression and the need for secondary treatments. The VEPTR device appears to be a viable alternative for large-magnitude curves.
Vertical mobile and reducible atlantoaxial dislocation is a discrete clinical entity. Abnormal inclination and incompetence of the facet joint appears to be the primary causative factor that resulted in vertical dislocation or basilar invagination. Posterior fixation in the reduced dislocation position forms the basis of treatment.
Free-hand placement of screws in the C-2 pedicle can be done safely and effectively without the use of intraoperative fluoroscopy or navigation when the pars interarticularis/pedicle is assessed preoperatively with CT or MR imaging and found to be suitable for screw placement. When breaches do occur, they are overwhelmingly lateral in location, breach &lt; 50% of the screw diameter, and in the authors' experience, are not clinically significant.
These results suggest that using lamina screws as a salvage technique at C-7 provides similar fixation strength as the index pedicle screw. The C-7 lamina appears to have an ideal anatomical width for the insertion of 3.5-mm screws commonly used for cervical fusions. Therefore, if the transpedicular screw fails, using intralaminar screws appear to be a biomechanically sound salvage technique.
Data from severe CST observed in the current study suggest many differences in the characteristics described in the majority of published epidemiological studies and those found in patients in the north area of So Paulo City. It is likely that these differences reflect the urban and cultural habits and behaviors of the population specific to this area.
Atypically located disc herniations should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with MR imaging data indicating spinal space-occupying disorders. All of these lesions, even those intradurally located, can be completely removed.
The present study identifies differences in presenting symptoms, operative course, perioperative complications, long-term ambulatory outcomes, and duration of survival for patients with lung, breast, prostate, kidney, and GI cancers and melanoma. This understanding may allow better risk stratification for patients with MESCC.
Lumbar SSEPs are able to detect neurological deficit in the lumbar area effectively, and they can reflect part of the subjective severity of sensory disturbance (numbness) in LSS. Both lumbar SSEPs and VAS scores of leg numbness may be useful for clinical evaluation in patients with LSS.
Although seemingly diverse in their distribution, the branches of the V2 and V3 segments of the VA may follow a certain consistent arrangement. The potential for injury to neural branches of the VA is minimal at its V3 segment and the C1-2 portion of its V2 segment. Such knowledge may be of use to the neurosurgeon who operates in the neck and at the craniocervical junction.
MRC defect might be an etiology of liver failure in a considerable number of patients in Japan. The present study suggested that considerable disturbance of MRC occurs in children with metabolic diseases and possibly modifies the pathophysiology.
We established cord blood CBC reference values of healthy Korean neonates using a large-scale CB units. The established CBC reference values from our study will be useful as basic data for CBC interpretation and assessment of transplant suitability of donated CB.
We found a difference in the distribution of causes of hypereosinophilia in comparison with previous Korean studies, and the most common cause of hypereosinophilia in the current study was malignancy. A rare case of clonal eosinophilia (chronic eosinophilic leukemia) associated with multiple myeloma was confirmed using molecular studies.
Assays using DPA 300-MHA biplate were highly sensitive and specific for the detection of IMP-1 and VIM-2 type MBL-producing bacteria. In addition, it is easy to perform; so, it may be useful to apply this method for detection of IMP-1 and VIM-2 type MBL in clinical laboratories.
The Phoenix SMIC/ID-2 panel provided a simple and rapid susceptibility testing for S. pneumoniae, and the results were in a good agreement with those of Etest. The Phoenix system appears to be an effective automated system in clinical microbiology laboratories.
CTX-M-type enzymes were the most common type of ESBL in E. coli isolates from Korea, and the qnr genes were not uncommon in ESBL-producing E. coli isolates. Dissemination of E. coli containing both ESBL and qnr genes could compromise the future usefulness of the expanded-spectrum antibiotics for the treatment of infections.
HBV DNA-positive/HBsAg RIA-negative results were mostly observed in the patients treated with HBIG after liver transplantation, in whom HBIG escape mutations were found. Majority of these cases were positive in Architect HBsAg assay, and it is recommended to use other HBsAg immunoassay methods that are more sensitive than RIA in the detection limit as well as in the detection of escape mutant in hospitals performing liver transplantation.
This convenient multiplex ASPCR assay, performed using whole blood samples, provides a supplement to routine serological ABO typing and might also be useful in other genotyping applications.
JAK2 MutaScreen kit that utilizes a real-time semi-quantitative PCR method is a useful tool for diagnosing MPDs precisely. It can be used to assess the grade of mutant allele burden as well as to screen JAK2 V617F simultaneously.
Plasma hnRNP B1 mRNA was significantly increased in patients with lung cancer compared with that in patients with other benign lung diseases. Plasma hnRNP B1 mRNA may be useful as a potential marker for the detection of NSCLC.
Buffer-tube minimizes false negative FOBT results during pre-analytical delay of specimen. The examinees using buffer-free containers need to be educated to hand in their specimens to laboratories as soon as possible.
Review of the literature confirms the shift from bilateral exploration towards minimally invasive techniques. The incidence of persistent or recurrent disease as well as the rate of complications seems comparable. Operation time for minimally invasive techniques is reduced in the hands of an experienced surgeon. However, proper preoperative localization of the diseased parathyroid gland is not always possible and the expenses of intraoperative parathyroid hormone measures do not lower the overall costs. Considerable experience and a multidisiplinary approach (endocrinologist, surgeon, pathologist) is required to adopt efficient minimally invasive techniques. As for sHPT, bilateral exploration remains the treatment of choice.
After the differential diagnostic exclusion of peripheral hearing disorders and cognitive impairments, these three tests are sufficient to initially justify the clinical-diagnostic classification "(C)APD" in 8-11-year-old children taking into account only a relatively slight probability of error. Poor results in two of the three differentiating tests (discrepancy criterion of &gt;1 SD of the reference population) are sufficient to support the diagnostic classification of an (C)APD.
The semiquantitative DWI score easily evaluated extent of acute ischemic lesion on DWI and might be used to predict patient outcome after thrombolytic therapy more accurately than ASPECTS or DWI volume.
Bands of low intensity between epicardial fat and coronary artery lumen on MIF of WHCA and WS-SPIR 3D T(1) TFE can reflect the coronary artery wall.
The appropriate slice locations for evaluating maximal CSAs are slightly lateral to the center of the scapula for the supraspinatus and subscapularis, at approximately the center of the scapula for the infraspinatus, and near the glenoid fossa for the teres minor. These slice locations should be clinically useful for morphological and/or function-related assessments of shoulder RC muscles.
This procedure permitted us to estimate the regional lung ventilation for any arbitrarily set slice, and it will provide a standard for measuring regional lung ventilation as a baseline for further studies.
Both rh-APC and TGC appear to improve fibrinolysis in septic patients. The reduction in the impairment of fibrinolysis associated with rh-APC treatment seems greater in patients undergoing conventional glycemic control than in those undergoing TGC.
Nurses indicated a strong demand for training on NIV, in order to improve their involvement with the therapeutic program and for better communication with the MET and ward doctors. We conclude that active research towards understanding their point of view should be included as part of the quality control of NIV treatments outside the ICU.
LA+TCI was shown to be more effective than selective SA at low doses in terms of shorter time to recovery after unilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy procedures.
These experiments support the hypothesis that the angiogenic inhibitors (specifically TNP-470 and AS(4.5)) induce microphthalmia either indirectly by their known effects on placental morphology (and/or function) or directly via altering microvascular growth in the fetus. These results also warrant further investigation of a new experimental paradigm linking placental pathology-related fetal growth restriction and microphthalmia.
A majority of patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy have antibodies against a conformation-dependent epitope in PLA(2)R. PLA(2)R is present in normal podocytes and in immune deposits in patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy, indicating that PLA(2)R is a major antigen in this disease.
Survival after in-hospital CPR did not improve from 1992 through 2005. The proportion of in-hospital deaths preceded by CPR increased, whereas the proportion of survivors discharged home after undergoing CPR decreased. Black race was associated with higher rates of CPR but lower rates of survival after CPR.
The use of PET-CT for preoperative staging of NSCLC reduced both the total number of thoracotomies and the number of futile thoracotomies but did not affect overall mortality. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00867412.)
Early blockade of the renin-angiotensin system in patients with type 1 diabetes did not slow nephropathy progression but slowed the progression of retinopathy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00143949.)
Enrollment in Medicare Part D was associated with increased spending on prescription drugs. Groups that had no or minimal drug coverage before the implementation of Part D had reductions in other medical spending that approximately offset the increased spending on drugs, but medical spending increased in the group that had more generous previous coverage.
Sampling for salivary cortisol determination is a sensitive, specific and pain-free procedure and it is therefore very useful for following healthy and sick children before, during and after pharmacological interventions. Different conditions as time for sampling, interaction with other endogenous and exogenous steroids, and physical and psychological activity interact with the salivary cortisol concentration.
These findings support the conclusion that small regions of cortex investigated by ECoG recording may provide sufficient information about motor intentions to support brain-computer interface operations in the future. Given the small scale of the cortical region required, the requisite implanted array would be minimally invasive in terms of surgical placement of the electrode array.
Two-dimensional control signals can be derived from ECoG. Local field potentials as measured by ECoG from subdural grids will be useful as control signals for a brain-machine interface.
Multifunctional neural probes such as the ones developed and validated within this study have great potential to help further understand the design space and criteria for the next generation of neural probe technology. By incorporating integrated drug delivery functionality into the probes, new treatment options for neurological disorders and regenerative neural interfaces using localized and feedback-controlled delivery of drugs can be realized in the near future.
The nonpenetrating microwire platform showed good potential for allowing differentiated signals to be recorded with high spatial fidelity without cortical penetration.
The hypocarotenemia observed after bariatric surgery may compromise the availability of carotenoids to tissues and the vitamin A status, reducing the fat-soluble antioxidant capacity and constituting an additional risk factor for several clinical conditions. Given the emerging role of carotenoids in disease prevention, dietary advice on carotenoid-rich and fortified foods or the use of supplements in these patients should be considered.
Results obtained indicate that bariatric surgery-induced weight loss had beneficial effects on several laboratory parameters including serum phenylalanine, ALT, lipid concentrations and insulin resistance. A strong positive correlation between serum phenylalanine and serum ALT concentrations suggests that deterioration of liver function in obese patients is contributing to a decrease in phenylalanine metabolism and consequently to the increase of serum phenylalanine concentration. One can suppose that serum phenylalanine concentration could be noninvasive marker of liver dysfunction associated with liver steatosis in obese patients.
Malnutrition is difficult to diagnose in obese patients undergoing surgery. The large weight loss is most often not associated with protein malnutrition. Whether gastric bypass induces protein malnutrition remains to be established.
High-fat diet can result in obvious body weight increase and hepatic adipose infiltration compared with normal chow. Sleeve gastrectomy can decrease body weight even in high-fat-diet models. Body weight control caused by sleeve gastrectomy can relieve high-fat-diet-induced steatohepatitis in rats.
LRYGB is associated with an early reduction in BP and antihypertensive medication usage which is maintained at 1 year after surgery. This early impact on blood pressure occurs before any significant weight loss is achieved thereby suggesting a hormonal mechanism that may be involved for the changes observed.
During the 5 days after gastric bypass, a significant increase in white blood cells and CRP was observed. The increase was significantly greater after a laparotomic bypass compared to the laparoscopic approach.
Our study suggests that revision can be performed safely. Weight loss is satisfactory, and complications of the previous operations were all reversed. Furthermore, revisions may be done laparoscopically, including those who had previous open procedures.
High HL in MO patients could allow for liver intake of cholesterol that could be re-exported to steroidogenic organs to synthesize steroidal hormones. A decrease of plasma HL during weight loss could be a good index for improvement of liver disease.
Our technique describes a reliable method of intact specimen retrieval, typically without enlarging a 15-mm trocar incision.
The satiety sensation lasted much longer than the pouch emptying and the pressure increase. The pressure load correlated to the weight loss. This indicates that neuroendocrine mechanisms caused by the accumulated mechanical load are most important for maintaining satiety.
Nonoperative treatment (percutaneous drainage, endoscopy, stent) is feasible, safe, and effective for staple line leaks in patients undergoing LSG; furthermore, it may avoid more mutilating procedures such as total gastrectomy.
This sample of bariatric surgery patients had a high proportion of obese preteen children/grandchildren. Obesity was most prevalent among biological children (vs. biological grandchildren and nonbiological children). Patients often did not recognize the degree of overweight in their children/grandchildren. Because families of bariatric surgery patients often include obese children, interventions aimed at all family members merit consideration.
This study suggests that a lower RMR may contribute to weight regain in patients who undergo RYGBP. It is important to ensure ways to elevate energy expenditure in the patient, such as increasing the percentage of fat-free mass in the body and the practice of physical activities.
There is a significant BMD loss at the femoral neck and lumbar spine a year after gastric bypass. Menopausal patients and those with greater lean mass loss are at greater risk and, consequently, should be closely followed up with periodic densitometries.
In Germany, a trend from GB to sleeve gastrectomy (SG) and malabsorptive approach has been evaluated. This trend is associated with differences of the DVT prophylaxis regimen in the profile of bariatric surgical patients depending on BMI and the type of bariatric procedure. Despite the low incidence of DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE) detected, there is a lack of evidence on a reasonable regimen for sufficient DVT prophylaxis in bariatric surgery; instead, there are only recommendations from the guidelines and statements of a specific medical society. Therefore, prospective studies are necessary to determine the optimal DVT prophylaxis for bariatric surgical patients as well as obese patients undergoing surgery.
In LAGB patients, the LES is attenuated, although relaxes normally. Esophageal motility is preserved, although disrupted by overfilling the band. In the optimally adjusted LAGB, a delay in transit of liquids and semisolids through the esophagus and band is produced, along with an increase in repeated esophageal contractions.
Cytokines are good predictors of poor postoperative evolution in bariatric surgery since peritoneal cytokines diagnose better these infectious complications even before changes in blood count and before the occurrence of clinical manifestations.
Our results indicate that amelioration of inflammatory markers after LAGB does not seem to negatively impact nutritional status following weight reduction surgery. However, careful attention should be driven to serum IgA. Adequacy of nutritional intake and complete serial laboratory measurements should be always included in the required life-long follow-up of patients surgically treated for morbid obesity.
These findings suggest that severely obese participants' rate of salivary habituation to a taste stimulus is delayed compared to normal-weight controls. This provides support that satiation in bariatric surgery candidates is impaired, possibly leading to increased energy intake and positive energy balance.
Estimated vascular risk increases as renal function declines. The possibility that incorporating kidney function in the Framingham equation will improve risk stratification requires further evaluation.
Continuous femoral nerve block before surgery significantly improved early postoperative conditions in both surgery while late postoperative conditions were improved only in tibial osteotomy.
D-dimer is an insensitive and nonspecific test for the diagnosis of CTEPH. Despite a high negative predictive value D-dimer alone cannot be used to rule out CTEPH in patients with PH.
The results show that there is excessive accumulation of lipids in the diabetic retina. This is consistent with the known increased mobilization of lipids from the adipose tissue and their accumulation in other tissues under diabetic conditions. On a percentage profile basis, while the relative percentage of most of the fatty acids increased, the DHA percentage significantly decreased. This could be explained by its dilution by the fatty acids coming from the fat depots which lack DHA. Physiologically, the excessive accumulation of fatty acids in the diabetic retina correlates with the lipofuscinosis and neural dysfunction associated with this disease.
The protective effect of alpha-crystallin may be due to its effect on microglia via a downregulation in the expression and release of 2 key immune regulatory and inflammatory molecules: TNF-alpha and iNOS.
The retrobulbar administration of octreotide may be an effective new therapeutic strategy for CNV.
S. epidermidis strains isolated from three ocular pathologies were gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin resistant due to mutations on the gyrA and parC genes.
Perfusion fixation can well preserve glutamate IR even in the outer retina including the inner segments.
Our results suggest an association between systemic complement activation and the development of CNV. Moreover, we found an association of complement activation with atherosclerosis and confirmed the hypothesis that AMD can be a local manifestation of systemic disease.
The modified digital camera is a useful alternative technique to acquire fundus images and provides a tool for screening posterior segment conditions, including diabetic retinopathy in a variety of clinical settings.
Despite impressive similarities in the folding and photoactivation of vertebrate and invertebrate visual rhodopsins, a striking difference exists between mammalian and fly rhodopsins in their requirements for proper targeting. Most importantly, the distal part of helix 8 plays a central role in invertebrates. Since the last amino acid residues of helix 8 are dispensable for rhodopsin folding and function, we propose that this domain participates in the recognition of targeting factors involved in transport to the rhabdomeres.
These results suggest that with the onset of AD, mental rotation difficulties arise that affect the ability to recognize faces presented at different angles. The finding that a frontal view is "preferred" by these patients provides a valuable communication strategy for health care workers.
Together, our results show that dRecQ4 is an essential gene that plays an important role in not only DNA replication but also DNA repair and cell cycle progression in vivo.
These studies identify Bili as an evolutionarily conserved negative regulator of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway.
Our data demonstrate that RUNX3 is involved in TGF-beta-dependent and -independent cell growth inhibition and apoptosis induction pathways.
In muscles from acutely T. cruzi RA-infected mice, upregulated gene expression of proinflammatory chemokines, chemokine receptors, cytokines and iNOS is associated with the severity of parasite burden and myopathic alterations. Compared to the heart, striated muscles displayed differential timing of expression of several inflammatory mediators throughout acute infection. Our findings suggest that enhanced early production of these factors could contribute to T. cruzi-dependent inflammatory damage to skeletal muscles.
ING4 has a potential role on the growth suppression and apoptosis enhancement in gliomas U87MG via the activation of mitochondrial-induced apoptotic pathway and the hindrance of the cell cycle progression. The low expression and dysfunction of ING4 might be correlated with the tumorigenesis and progression of gliomas.
TS and DPD levels had a tendency to be high in PC and BTC cancerous tissues. High TS in the cancerous tissue was associated with better disease-free survival in BTC.
THP effectively protects ileal mucosa and muscularis against ischemia and reperfusion injury, indicating for the first time the clinical relevance of this new and promising molecule that might become a central component in tissue and organ protection in the near future.
Our results demonstrated that pediatric EDH can be managed nonoperatively. The pronounced increase in the number of CT examinations for patients with head injuries has resulted in a greater proportion of EDH detected in conscious patients. We recommend such treatment be performed in specialized pediatric neurosurgical centers under close neurological observation.
The use of pre-resectional ETV at this institution is an effective and safe procedure with a high success rate at up to 7.5 years of follow-up. We believe that all paediatric neurosurgical institutions should review their practice regarding hydrocephalus associated with posterior fossa tumours in the light of the controversy surrounding perioperative CSF diversion.
In this study, no correlation was determined between preoperative and postoperative NGF levels and preoperative and postoperative RI and PI values obtained from TCD examination. However, a positive correlation was found between the following results: preoperative PI and preoperative RI (r = 0.848); PI on postoperative day 3 and RI on postoperative day 3 (r = 0.690), and PI on postoperative day 30 and RI on postoperative day 30 (r = 0.707).
Experimentally induced dysraphism in the rat fetus is related to glial response and increased GFAP expression in the spinal cord. Corticoid treatment clinically improved nerve injury in some fetuses. It reduced glial reaction and GFAP expression.
Medicine use for headache is a behavioural pattern that may track from adolescence into adulthood.
There was no evidence of an overall effect on suicides of regulatory action to restrict prescribing of SSRIs to young people, although there was weak evidence of an increase in suicide amongst young women internationally.
PPI use may be modestly associated with CRC risk; further research should be conducted in populations with long-term PPI use.
Clustering of new prescriptions for psychotropic medications was a common phenomenon in this population. Surveillance and cluster identification allow the development of disparities to be studied. This information permits interventions to be targeted to locations prospectively.
The study participants had better basic ADR knowledge than pharmacovigilance knowledge. The study suggests that it is imperative to provide special training to healthcare professionals from different regions and different departments in order to improve the awareness of pharmacovigilance and the development of ADR monitoring.
In young infancy, besides the severity of symptoms there are child, physician and particularly maternal characteristics that influence the decision of general practitioners to prescribe drugs for respiratory symptoms.
Non-Caucasian ethnicity is associated with lower rates of new ADM use. After IPCW adjustment, the observed ethnicity differences in ADM use are smaller although still statistically significant.
This study provides insight into how health plan members, providers and purchasers might react to a CRT being conducted in their health plan. The recommendations reported here provide guidance for researchers and policy makers considering this methodological approach and suggest that with sufficient preparation and planning CRTs can be an acceptable and efficient methodology for studying the comparative effectiveness of therapeutics in real world settings.
In vertically acquired HIV-1 infected children, HAART elevates the risk of hypercholesterolemia. NRTI/PI increased risk of TC levels threefold, while NRTI/NNRTI increased risk twofold over No MED.
The majority of psychotropic drugs were prescribed by GPs. Overall drug use increased significantly, and psychiatrists' contribution decreased significantly with patients' age. The quality of pharmacological treatment for mental health problems of the general and aging population therefore relies mainly on the GPs.
This is the largest series of immediate-type local anesthetic allergic reactions reported in the literature. Cutaneous symptoms are the main features even though more serious symptoms may occur. Intradermal reaction and challenge tests are very helpful. Because cross-reactivity is not scarce, skin tests should involve several local anesthetics.
The increased prevalence of co-morbidities constitutes a baseline risk which may translate in higher occurrence of psychiatric and cardiovascular diseases during use of anti-obesity drugs, independent of the drugs. The limited period of use might reduce possible cardiovascular benefits of weight reduction induced by these drugs.
The reporting of photosensitivity reactions to established phototoxic drug classes is strongly influenced by spectroscopic and physicochemical characteristics of individual drugs.
High incidence of serious and multiple ADRs noticed. A wide clinical spectrum of ADRs and infrequently reported ADRs to newer drugs were also observed.
Researchers should consider using the 'physician preference' instrument when comparing two competing drugs, but should be aware of the underlying assumptions.
In conclusion, the spectroscopic luminescence measurements carried out in this study revealed significant differences between tumor tissue and adjacent normal tissue of human brains for all the tumor types tested, except for pituitary adenoma. From the results of this study we conclude that excitation wavelengths ranging from 410-470 nm are most suitable for the detection of brain tumor tissue. Moreover, in this particular study, only excitation at 470 nm indicated that samples we considered to be normal tissue were not normal, and that these were indeed pituitary adenoma tissues. This distinction was not clear at other excitation wavelengths.
Based on the results obtained in this study, it may be suggested that nearinfrared laser irradiation may reverse the neurochemical changes in amino acid neurotransmitters induced by pilocarpine.
The diode laser was effective in increasing skin flap viability in rats, and laser irradiation of a point 2.5 cm from the cranial base flap was found to be the most effective.
In-office KTP laser photodynamic bleaching provides a clinically useful improvement in tooth shade in teeth with tetracycline discoloration.
The 5-W power setting may be suitable for dental restoration applications in terms of shear bond strength and activation area.
After 28 d, the rat tongue wounds produced by the CO(2) laser showed complete healing, independently of PRGF application.
Higher laser power settings (400 and 600 mJ) cause excessive material deterioration, making them unsuitable as surface treatments for zirconia surfaces. Irradiation with 200 mJ provides mild surface alterations, with intermediary features between the effects of air abrasion and higher laser intensities.
LLLT after cesarean section has no serious deleterious effects on lactation, and it helps to modulate metabolic processes and thus promotes wound healing post-surgery.
Interferential laser therapy is safe and effective in reducing knee pain. However, the results of the study indicate that it is not superior to the use of a single conventional laser.
Laser irradiation could provide a simple and effective means of controlling the fate of MSCs as a therapeutic strategy, and act as a "molecular switch" of regulatory proteins by suppressing CRY transcription. Furthermore, this model system may be useful for exploring the cross-talk between circadian rhythm and cell function.
The FT-Raman technique may be suitable for detecting compositional and structural changes occurring in mineral phases and organic phases of lased enamel under cariogenic challenge.
PDT with hematoporphyrin in the KB cell line showed morphological changes of cell necrosis and apoptosis, which were associated with the time of distribution and localization of hematoporphyrin. Also, the apoptosis evoked followed the mitochondria-dependent pathway.
We found an influence of the PVC wrapping on the performance of the LF and LFpen devices. However, since its influence on detection of occlusal caries lesions is considered for, the use of one PVC layer is suggested to avoid cross-contamination in clinical practice.
The results suggest that the combination of an exercise program with LLLT or polarized polychromatic non-coherent light is an adequate treatment for patients with LET. Further research to establish the relative and absolute effectiveness of such a treatment approach is needed.
Dentists using this technique can carry out immediate restoration of metallic fixed, removable, and orthodontic broken prostheses in their own offices, thus reducing the time needed for such repairs.
The use of polarized light on Hep.2 and L929 cells resulted in photobiological effects that need further investigation, as this is the first study using this methodology.
Using lasers and fluoride on decalcified enamel appears to increase the enamel's acid resistance, and the effects of the lasers were better than those of fluoride treatment.
The study demonstrated that both LLLT and LIPUS promote changes on the cellular level. However, LIPUS was more effective than LLLT at the doses used here, as assessed by fluorescence microscopy, which revealed increased reticulum activity and increased protein synthesis. However, when the organization of actin filaments was assessed, LLLT achieved a better result.
Adult ADHD subjects display significantly poorer functioning versus healthy controls on complex but not on simple tasks of attention, and the degree of impairment varies with gender, with males displaying a higher level of impairment.
Both indices of cortical activation (TOI and HbO2 concentration) indicated a discrepancy in the PFC function between verbal versus non-verbal processing, indicating task-specific abnormalities in the hemodynamic control of the PFC in bipolar disorder.
Findings from this study are suggestive of brainstem abnormalities in autism involving gray-matter structures with evidence supporting the existence of a relationship between these alterations and sensory deficits. These results are consistent with previous investigations and support the existence of disturbances in brainstem circuitry thought to be implicated in the sensory dysfunction observed in autism.
Potential explanations for the increased vulnerability of youth living in poor neighborhoods are discussed.
The findings may imply distinct calendar calculation strategies in ACC and HCC, with HCC relying on calendar regularities for all types of dates and an involvement of (rote) memory in ACC when processing dates of the past and the present.
Mental capacity has complex relationships with psychopathological variables, and these relationships are different according to diagnostic group. Insight is the best discriminator of capacity status in psychotic disorders and BPAD but not in non-psychotic disorders.
PCS symptoms are common and some are related to exposures such as blast injury. However, this association is not specific, and the same symptom complex is also related to numerous other risk factors and exposures. Post-deployment screening for PCS and/or mTBI in the absence of contemporaneous recording of exposure is likely to be fraught with hazards.
Treatment of prior mental disorders would not be a cost-effective way to prevent substance dependence. However, prevention of substance dependence might be considered an important secondary outcome of interventions for early-onset mental disorders.
Public health decisions that contribute directly or indirectly to reducing the number of patients with depression who are effectively administered ADT may paradoxically induce a rise in the number of suicides.
Clinically significant mood lability is relatively common in the community. Our findings indicate that mood lability is not a mere consequence of other psychopathology in that it is associated with significant impairment even in the absence of psychiatric diagnoses. Moreover, the pattern of association of mood lability with co-morbidity suggests that it could be a risk factor shared by both internalizing and externalizing disorders. Our data point to the need for greater awareness of mood lability and its implications for treatment.
Neurocognitive impairments in executive functions may reflect the familial neurobiological risk mechanisms underlying pediatric BPD and may have utility as endophenotypes in molecular genetic studies of the condition.
There was an almost fourfold increase in male suicide risk and a threefold increase in female suicide risk in the period following the 2002 bombings in Bali. Trends in tourism did not account for most of the observed increases. Other factors such as indirect socio-economic effects and Balinese notions of collective guilt and anxieties relating to ritual neglect are important in understanding the rise in suicide in the post-2002 period.
Patients with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia show common deficits in EDS and RL. These deficits do not seem to be attributable to current symptoms and are consistent with disrupted networks involving the ventral prefrontal cortex.
Our data suggest that adults with ADHD and a high IQ display patterns of functional impairments, familiality and psychiatric co-morbidities that parallel those found in the average-IQ adult ADHD population.
The results confirm that MMN is not an endophenotype for psychotic BPD whereas P300 amplitude and latency components are valid endophenotypes for psychotic BPD.
Regardless of age at onset, the passage of decades in bipolar illness seems to bring an increase in the predominance of depressive symptoms in individuals in their third, fourth and fifth decades and an earlier age of onset portends a persistently greater depressive symptom burden. The degree to which either depression or manic/hypomanic symptoms persist has significant stability over lengthy periods and seems to reflect traits that manifest early in an individual's illness.
It is exposed how systematic ambiguity and epistemic shortcomings both affect Leslie's formulation of ToM and, further, the importance of these characteristics of the concept of 'representation' for general issues in psychiatric semiology.
These results suggest that anomalous subjective experience and impaired recognition of complex emotions may differentiate between young depressed patients with and without psychosis risk.
The persistence of PTSD at the 12-month evaluation is related to ASD, limitations in work and social life, and lower social support scores. In developing countries like Turkey, long-term PTSD is commonly seen after traffic accidents.
The results of this study indicate diagnosis-related variations in the negative and depressive syndrome dimensions in schizophrenia, OBD and MDD. These results also validate limited use of the PANSS for evaluation of negative and depressive syndromes in disorders other than schizophrenia. Larger studies are warranted to further evaluate clinical and nosologic significance of diagnostic categories, dimensions and structures of psychiatric syndromes.
Results of hierarchical multiple regressions showed that depressive, cyclothymic and hyperthymic temperaments and melancholic type at time 1 significantly predicted DMC from time 1 to time 2, after controlling for demographic variables and the level of depressive mood at time 1. Path analysis results showed that depressive, cyclothymic and hyperthymic temperaments and melancholic type significantly predicted DMC, a certain part of the influence of depressive, cyclothymic and hyperthymic temperaments and melancholic type was significantly mediated via coping styles and that the influence of melancholic type was also mediated via dysfunctional attitudes. These findings provide clues for the targeting of interventions.
In this German study, we could replicate and extend the findings from previous US studies, where men and women with BPD showed important differences in their pattern of psychiatric comorbidity. The implications for clinicians and researchers are discussed.
The self-reported experience of FTD has different clinical and neuropsychological correlates from those of FTD as assessed by clinicians and carers. The assessment of FTD by patients and carers used along with the clinician's assessment may further the study of this group of symptoms.
The German CAM is a reliable and valid measure of delirium, even in frail, acutely diseased elderly with concomitant dementia.
The results suggest that the association of sport and leisure PA with lower adiposity is due, in part, to a common genetic inheritance of both reduced adiposity and the predisposition to engage in more physical activity.
The present results indicate that hypertension is associated with different obesity indices in men and in women. The best indicator for hypertension is WSR in men while it is BMI in women.
The use of the most appropriate, currently available methods of MVA, and a correct, comprehensive presentation and interpretation of their findings, is of paramount importance for understanding how obesity can be treated and prevented.
The recursive relationship between food insecurity and depression has implications for US nutrition, mental health and poverty policies. The study highlights the need to integrate programmes addressing food insecurity and poor mental health for the population of rural, low-income women.
The health behaviours 'Eat a varied diet' and 'Engage in regular physical activity' were positively associated with healthy eating. The dietary habits reported were strongly influenced by personal intentions. Thus, the biggest challenge for public health nutritionists will be to reach non-compliers who seldom have intentions to eat healthy.
The study has suggested that nutritional health remains a problem among older adults in the Chinese community. A large proportion was on the borderline of malnutrition, and deficiency as well as excesses coexisted. Malnutrition is an increasing hazard especially for those suffering from more diseases, at a highly advanced age, functionally dependent and widowed.
Although the recall method provides an acceptable alternative to the more labour-intensive and expensive food-weighing method, there is need to further improve its performance in this population through more accurate recall of single foods, especially fruits, as well as added sugars, fats, dairy products and meats, which are often added in small amounts to mixed dishes.
Accuracy of adult self-reported weight profiles will be greatly underestimated if samples have individuals of current or past high relative weight. Adjusting for underestimation based on the respondent's weight status alone will considerably improve the validity of weight information.
Various multilevel actions are needed to improve nutritional status of under-fives in Libya. At risk-groups include those with young age (1-3 years), resident of Al-Akhdar region, boys, father's low educational level, poor psychosocial stimulation, poor housing environment, diarrhoea and low birth weight.
Classification of pre-school children as physically active or not, based on a small set of questions, revealed significant associations with overweight/obesity and a motor test. Once further validated, this classification might provide a valuable tool to assess the impact of physical activity on the risk of childhood overweight and obesity.
Interventions to improve children's diet could promote more positive intentions about preparing and serving of foods, particularly of specific meals at which the family eats together. The benefits of these behaviours to the child (improved diet, weight control) should be emphasised.
The GI diet seems closer to the traditional MDP than the BI diet.
The study raises doubt about the efficiency of the BINP to correctly target food supplementation to pregnant women. It also shows that food supplementation does not lead to enhanced pregnancy weight gain nor does it provide any evidence of a reduction in prevalence of low birth weight.
The time trend of CHD mortality was inversely related to the trend of fish intake. The frequency of fish intake may have a substantial impact on the population for the prevention of CHD deaths in Hong Kong.
Capacity building is a strategy within public health nutrition practice that needs to be central to public health nutrition intervention management. The present paper defines, contextualises and outlines a framework for integrating and making explicit the importance of capacity building within public health nutrition practice at many levels.
The present study indicates that the Schoolgruiten scheme was effective in increasing children's fruit intake and that appreciation of the project partially mediated this effect.
Although total Zn intake was not greatly affected over the initial period of economic growth in South Korea (1969-1988), Zn contributions from different food sources changed markedly and both Zn intake and potential bioavailability were improved by 1998. The study may have implications for Zn nutrition in other Asian countries currently experiencing rapid economic growth.
The levels of DHA + EPA and other nutrients in fish may be adequate to offset the hypothesized risks of heart disease related to ingesting Hg from fish.
Among the Chinese adult population measures of central obesity are better predictors of glucose tolerance abnormalities prevalence than BMI. A WHtR cut-off point of 0.5 for both men and women can be considered as optimum for predicting (pre-) diabetes and may be a useful tool for screening and health education.
There is evidence of reductions in TFA in margarines since new labelling regulations came into effect in Canada; however, TFA reductions appeared to be restricted to higher-priced margarines. Results suggest that voluntary approaches (i.e. manufacturer incentives via labelling) to reduce population intakes of TFA will yield little changes in TFA content of low-cost products and thus may have limited benefit for lower-income groups, who are at higher risk of heart disease.
Border areas at a distance from the mainland exhibit different dietary intakes compared with rest of the country; thus when designing nutrition surveys the setting should also include such limitary areas.
Encouraging cereal consumption may be a simple, safe and inexpensive nutrition intervention that could optimize periconceptional intake for successful placental and fetal development.
Further research is needed to help establish whether and how the WHO international standards can measure gender discrimination in practice, which continues to be a serious problem in many parts of the world.
Total monetary cost of self-reported diet was positively associated with biomarker-based estimates of protein, K and Na intake in young Japanese women, and appeared mainly to be explained by the monetary costs of vegetables and fish.
The monetary cost of dietary energy was independently and negatively associated with both BMI and waist circumference, but not other metabolic risk factors, in a group of young Japanese women.
Off-reserve Aboriginal households in Canada merit special attention for income security and poverty alleviation initiatives.
The current study demonstrated that more than one-third of mothers misclassify their children's weight status as being lower than the actual. Given that mother's weight perception might be an important determinant of child's body weight development, clinicians and health professionals should help mothers correctly classify their children's weight status, which could potentially help in the early prevention of overweight and obesity.
The assessment of functions prioritized by employers of public health nutritionists gave a valuable input for developing a new curriculum in public health nutrition. It reflected the challenges of the real world that public health nutritionists will work in and therefore helped making the curriculum potentially more relevant.
Eleven-year-old children should be asked themselves what determines their fruit and vegetable intake. However, children reported determinants in the physical and social environment, of which the parents are a part, as an important determinant for their intake. Interventions aiming to increase fruit and vegetable intake among children must therefore target the parents.
Overweight occurs frequently among Jamaican 15-19-year-olds and is associated with increased consumption of sweetened beverages. High WC is more prevalent among females and is related to low consumption of fruits and vegetables. Measures to reduce the consumption of sweetened beverages and increase fruit intake may reduce the prevalence of excess body fat among adolescents.
Age-specific prevention programmes should encourage greater meal frequency. The close involvement of parents is essential in any strategy for improving children's (families') diets.
BMI in patients undergoing primary elective THA did not impact LOS or overall institutional acute care costs, despite higher operative costs in morbidly obese patients. Obesity does not increase resource utilization for elective THA.
The experimental MAR reconstruction algorithm significantly improved CT image quality for patients with large metal implants. However, the MAR algorithm introduced blurring artifact that reduced image quality with small metal implants.
Medial patellar ossification correlates with a history of prior patella subluxation and/or dislocation. The medial ossification can be seen within the MPFL or the medial joint capsule, suggesting remote injury to these structures. The presence of this lesion will prompt physicians to evaluate for patellar instability.
All small eccentric chondromas in this study were associated with an appearance of cortical scalloping of varying degree. All curetted lesions were histologically bland without nuclear atypia. Based on the benign histology of nine lesions and lack of growth of two lesions over several years, the degree of cortical scalloping is felt to be a result of lesion location within the endosteum rather than biological activity or malignancy.
In view of the orthopedic management of multiple joint dislocations and ligamentous laxity of the large joints, awareness of this disease entity and diagnostic precision solely based on radiological findings is of importance, particularly as the disorder is currently more common than initially reported.
Gradient echo-based pulse sequences like SPGR and FIESTA are well suited for imaging at UHF which may improve early detection of cartilage lesions. However, UHF IM-w FSE sequences are less feasible for clinical use.
The obtained results suggest that besides morphological MRI and biochemical MR techniques, such as T2 and T2* mapping, DWI may also deliver additional information about the ultrastructure of cartilage and cartilage repair tissue in the ankle joint using high-field MRI, a dedicated multichannel coil, and sophisticated sequences.
MRI at 3.0 T improved visualization of anatomical structures and improved diagnostic confidence compared to 1.5 T. This resulted in significantly better sensitivity and grading of cartilage lesions at the knee.
Paraplegia can be accelerated in patients with Scheuermann's disease, severe kyphotic angulation and dysplastic posterior elements. After operative treatment, neurological recovery and a normal walking pattern were shown.
Given that there was-in general-an inverse relationship between BP and skin blood flow, we conclude that continuous measurements of skin blood flow above and below the lesion can provide important information on the state of the sympathetic nervous system and early identification of reflexly evoked increases in sympathetic vasoconstrictor drive, below a spinal lesion. Coupled with a decrease in HR, this cutaneous vasoconstriction infers an increased BP.
One-channel cystometry is easy to perform, cheap and clinically valid. The results need to be integrated in the overall knowledge of the patient's neurological situation. The method permits one to gather a lot of information on bladder function in persons with SCL. With proper interpretation and a clear understanding of the shortcomings, it is a good guide for bladder management. It is applicable everywhere.
Our series support the existence of relapsing I-TM as a disease entity that does not appear related to NMO, nor to MS, cannot be further specified and shares many features with P-TM. The likelihood of relapses was unpredictable based on clinical, CSF and MRI findings.
By identifying common ADL performed by individuals with SCI, the study findings begin to provide direction for developing strategies to optimize ADL participation. Future research should examine fitness as a way to help individuals with SCI optimize their ADL participation.
Our pilot study gives a first hint that the P(2)X(2) expression in patients with suprasacral spinal cord injury seems to be comparable to the expression in patients with idiopathic overactive bladder. Therefore, P(2)X(2) receptors in detrusor tissue may be a future target for the treatment of detrusor overactivity.
The AIS conversion outcome measure is poorly related to the ability to walk in traumatic SCI patients. Therefore, the authors recommend the use of functional ambulation recovery outcome measures in prognosticating the recovery of walking capacity and performance of patients with SCI.
After a mean follow-up of 19 months, 46% was successfully treated. The rate of success was 35% after 3 years and remained almost unchanged afterwards. TAI is safe and can be introduced to most patients suffering from NBD.
E. coli 83972-coated urinary catheters are a viable means of achieving bladder colonization with this potentially protective strain in persons practicing ICP.
Quantitative standards for determining the extent of SCI during the acute phase must be developed and validated. Even though increased concentrations of neurochemical biomarkers have been identified in patients with SCI, these do not yet provide a sensitive prognostic tool. Considering the limited availability of sensitive prognostic tools, neurochemical biomarkers of SCI should be evaluated and validated in future clinical trials.
Bone mineral should be measured around the knee; the length and intensity of the treatment should be sufficiently long and high, respectively, and should commence early after SCI. If bone mineral is to remain, the stimulation has to be possibly continued for long term. In addition, RCTs are necessary.
SODIS method significantly reduced the potential viability of C. parvum oocysts on increasing the percentage of oocysts that took up the dye PI (indicator of cell wall integrity), although longer exposure periods appear to be required than those established for the bacterial pathogens usually tested in SODIS assays. SODIS.
Typhoid was associated with unsafe water and sanitation practices as well as with consumption of milk products, fruits and vegetables. We propose to chlorinate drinking water at the point of use, wash/cook raw fruits and vegetables and ensure safer preparation/storage of local milk products.
The prevalence of malaria parasitaemia and anaemia among pregnant women in Kassena-Nankana district is high with marked seasonal variation. Targeting of interventions to the high transmission season and to paucigravidae may be appropriate in this setting.
Visceral leishmaniasis clearly affects the poorest of the poor in India. They are most vulnerable, as this vector-born disease is linked to poor housing and unhealthy habitats. The disease leads the affected households to more destitution because of its impact on household income and wealth. Support for the present VL elimination initiative is important in the fight against poverty.
There is a need to develop an evidence-based, inclusive typology which takes account of HIV risk for researchers and programmers.
Compared to MDG indicators at the national level in Peru, the population of Beln experiences intra-country regional disparities in important health and social outcomes. Improving the coverage and quality of interventions and services in this community is essential. Other vulnerable populations in Peru should also be identified and targeted so that they can benefit from, and ultimately contribute to, progress in achieving the MDGs.
In the absence of laboratory diagnostics, POC is not only inexpensive and practical, but also significantly more sensitive than the syndromic management approach, resulting in less overtreatment. .
In addition to mass treatment with praziquantel, improving the socio-economic conditions of the population should be given priority.
The method we used is a cost-effective way to systematically assess geographical variations in health outcomes. It can thus provide researchers and practitioners with a good first-line tool in understanding local contributions to differences in mortality and other indicators, and give authorities at all levels a better foundation for addressing health inequities.
The abdominal lifting and compression equipment for CPR is an innovation of conventional CPR method, and may seem a mainstream method of CPR.
rAAV-mediated rHO-1 gene transfection may attenuate myocardium I/R injury by inhibiting apoptosis of cardiomyocyte in rats.
PECAM-1 gene Leu125Val polymorphism and its Val-Ser-Arg haplotype are associated with AMI, Val allele is an important genetic susceptibility gene for AMI. The PECAM-1 Val allele carriers may have a higher risk by enhancing the PECAM-1 expression in the pathogenesis of AMI.
All patients manifested myocardial damage after CPR. Some patients showed STEMI after CPR. CK-MB and cTnI concentrations increased gradually after successful CPR without specificity for earlier identification of myocardial damage and STEMI. It is necessary to find a new reliable marker to check for myocardial damage. Relatively speaking, elevation of the ST segment in electrocardiogram has more predictive value. A decrease exceeds 50% of the elevation of ST segment in electrocardiogram at ROSC 2 hours, or the peak of contents of CK-MB and cTnI appear at CPR 12 hours or 16 hours indicates myocardial damage. If the elevation of ST segment does not descend after ROSC 2 hours, or the levels of CK-MB and cTnI remain elevated at CPR 20 hours, STEMI should be suspected, and it is necessary to undertake interventional therapy or thrombolysis therapy.
The specific inhibitor of MMP-9 (SB-3CT) could decreased the expression of MMP-9, the injury of BBB, and cerebral edema in the cerebral ischemia model with CPR rats, and the protection of cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury after CPR is obvious.
Cardiac myocytes can effectively induce bone marrow MSCs to differentiate into cardiac myocytes by coculturing.
Excellent emergency system and procedure can shorten initial disposal time and out-hospital rescuing time, thus improve patients' prognosis. The education level and health knowledge of patients and their relatives directly affect their mode of arriving hospital and prognosis.
These experimental data demonstrates that post asphyxial serum of neonate can induce apoptosis of HK-2 cells, and translocation of Omi/HtrA2 from mitochondria into cytoplasm may play an important role in its intracellular signal transduction mechanism in induction of apoptosis.
IIT tends to lower the mortality rate, infection rate, and complications in critically ill patients in the ICU as compared with CIT. Also with IIT the target blood glucose can be easier reached than CIT. The therapy can improve the quality of life. However, IIT is not as good as CIT in the control of hypoglycemia.
The levels of leptin are significantly lowered in patients with hyperglycemia crisis. Oxidative stress may participate in determining the leptin level in hyperglycemia crisis.
Peak lactic acid level, 12-hour lactic clearance, APACHE II score and blood pH are good indicators to evaluate patients' prognosis. Peak lactic acid value&gt; or =10 mmol/L or 12-hour lactic clearance&lt; or =10% is an alert of extremely bad prognosis. Prognosis value of duration of lacticemia is limited.
BIS monitor is feasible for assessing the depth of sedation in mechanically ventilated patients.
NF-KappaB expression is up-regulated in brain tissue in early period after TBI, and keeps on a high level, thus inducing inflammatory response to produce secondary injury to brain tissue. Dexamethasone shows protective effects by regulating the levels of NF-KappaB and prevents secondary injury which is caused by the inflammatory cytokines in rat brain tissue after TBI.
LOI of H19 can be identified in pre-eclamptic placentas and is associated with maternal blood pressures, which implies the involvement of H19 gene LOI in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia and its potential relationship with the severity of the disease.
The elevated peripheral serum endoglin level may contributes to the pathogenesis of severe pre-eclampsia and FGR, but not the week of the onset of the disease.
Increased levels of oxLDL in plasma may induce excess expression of LOX-1 in placenta, which may be involved in the pathophysiological processes of pre-eclampsia.
The "Guidelines for performing fetal cardiac scan" is practical and easy to abide by. The optimal time for fetal cardiac examination is at 18 approximately 27 weeks of gestation. Four-chamber view together with the outflow tracts and three-vessel views examination can detect 69% of CHD in utero.
The incidence of multiple pregnancy demonstrated obviously increasing trends born with various In Vitro Fertilization techniques, which pave the way to high risk pregnancy. However, the incidence of newborn birth defect was not increased significantly. Thus, to lower occurrence of multiple pregnancy was the key approach to obtain neonates health.
The cervical ulcer in Behcet's disease most commonly occurred after cervical operation. The diagnosis should be derived from comprehensive symptoms analysis. The topical application of rb-bFGF on ulcer site of cervix could get satisfied outcome. When necessary, systemic corticosteroids administration could be considered.
Although patients with borderline ovarian tumors have an excellent prognosis, the risk of recurrence remains in some patients. Emphasis should be put on these patients with high risk factors and preventive strategies should be taken to prevent their progression.
The profile of serum tumor makers in epithelial ovarian carcinoma may be changed after chemotherapy, which should be concomitantly determinate different serum tumor markers for monitoring the response to chemotherapy and follow-up of patients.
We have demonstrated that there are 4 kinds of differentially expressed genes related to metastasis of ovarian cancer, which belonged to the families enzyme and its regulator, nucleic acid binding, signal transduction and protein binding, and located at chromosome 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
Netrin-1 can promote the potential of proliferation and invasion of extravillous trophoblasts in vitro through its receptors including neogenin and UNC5B.
It might enhance the potential of fertilization of oocytes and early embryo development treated by double activation following ICSI, however, those activated oocytes demonstrate rapid cleavage.
Rats treated by PDT tumor cell lysates could produce antitumor effects in vivo, which shown that induce tumor-specific immune response and prolong the life span.
VINIII has good prognosis. The development of VINIII may be related to the infection of HPV, because most of them concurrent with HPV diseases. Its primary treatment is surgical resection, while affecting on the quality of life.
The patients with former diagnosis of VINII, VINII-III, VINIII, Bowen disease and Bowenoid papulosis are basically reclassified as usual type VIN (warty type) according to the 2004 modified terminology of ISSVD. The results showed that the diagnosis of VIN could be simplified by new terminology. The surgical excision is the good choice and combined cytologic and human papillomavirus (HPV) test during follow up is also important for patients of VIN.
The clinical characteristics of VAIN are similar to CIN and the principles of diagnosis and treatment are also the same as that of CIN.
It is safe and efficacious that combined use of motherwort injection and oxytocin was to prevent postpartum hemorrhage during or after caesarian section.
(1) Placental blood flow perfusion of the severe pre-eclampsia and pre-eclampsia with chronic hypertension of pregnancy decreased resulting in clinically lower placental weight, birth weight and gestational age at delivery, but there were no obvious differences in umbilical blood flow S/D values. (2) The investigation was helpful to clinical diagnosis in the placenta perfusion of pre-eclampsia by three-dimensional power Doppler ultrasound.
(1) CAPN10 SNP-19 is associated with glucose metabolism disorders in pregnant women. And 2R allele might be the risk factor. CAPN10 SNP-19 2R/2R+2R/3R and SNP-63 T/T+T/C genotypes might increase the risk of glucose metabolism disorders in women with positive family history. Haplotype 121 might increase the risk of glucose metabolism disorders in pregnant women and 221 be a protective factor.
Left ventricular dysfunction and myocardial injury were shown in the neonates with ICP, which might be associated with with the elevated TBA level of maternal blood. The Tei index of fetal left ventricle could be used as a reliable parameter to monitor cardiac function and the degree of injured myocardial muscles.
It is suggested that AMH might affect estrogen synthesis by inhibiting P450 aromatose activity so that lead to hyperandrogenism microenvironment in local ovary.
Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy maybe improve the prognosis of patients with high-risk early stage endometrial cancer, which need to be further study by prospective randomized trials.
High grade, the extent of CIN disease, LEEP and postmenopausal age are high-risk factors associated with positive margin in patients treated by conization. It should be warranted in those patients when designing conization treatment.
The pathogenicity of UU3 varies with different concentration in genital tract of mice. When UU3 concentration is more than 1x10(6) copy/g, the susceptibility to infection was intensified significantly.
Transcriptional factors of TTF (1)-1, NRF-1, TCE may be associated with ER-mediated signal pathway, while RFX123 and Ikaros may be associated with non ER-mediated signal pathway in endometrial cancer.
The recombinant adenovirus vector of AdhTERT-Can has been constructed successfully and could steady express in ovarian cancer cell lines HO8910PM. The results shown that it could inhibit significantly the growth of human ovarian cancer xenografted tumors in mice and shown to be the target of gene therapy.
Stem cells can be isolated from second-trimester amniotic fluids; moderate serum concentration and supplementation of bFGF can improve the efficiency of isolation and expansion of amniotic fluid of stem cells.
The changes of visfatin and adiponectin levels may be related to the occurrence of FGR and fetal macrosomia.
Our results suggested that low expression of DDAH-2 in placenta and increased serum ADMA level might confer the susceptibility to preeclampsia.
MLPA + FISH analysis present shorter detecting time and achieve 100% rate of successful report. This combined method was an important adjuvant approach to conventional cytogenetic karyotyping in CVS from spontaneous abortion.
The decreasing of immunosuppressive function of Tr cell of URSA patients affect its regulation on DC, resulting in imbalance of Th1/Th2 and abnormality of maternal-fetal immuno-tolerence in URSA.
The level of INHB was the best factor in predicting ovarian response in IVF-ET. Decreased level of INHB was the early sign of ovarian reserve function failure, however, useless in predicting IVF-ET outcome.
The vulvovaginal anomalies derived from urogenital sinus malformation were complicated clinically. To establish classification system will be benefit for clinicians to make diagnosis and choose appropriate treatment. The individualized surgery should be performed on those patients to restore the structure and function, in the mean time, the factors associated with esthetics, sex and psychics should be considered.
There are ascites-derived exosomes in ascites from most patients with ovarian epithelial carcinoma. While the relationship between exosomes and prognosis of ovarian epithelial carcinoma needs further research.
The standard primary treatment is the most important for the MOGCT. Even for the recurrence and failure of primary treatment of MOGCT, the satisfied cytoreductive surgery plus the standard chemotherapy also show the significant impact on the prognosis.
VAIN was difficult to be diagnosed independently, which was frequently accompanied by cervical cancer or CIN, significantly localized in the upper third of vagina involving the multiple walls of vagina, and treated synchronously with cervical carcinoma and CIN accompanying. Surgery and radiotherapy was equally effective to control VAIN, and then follow-up post-treatment should be closely to detect, diagnose and treat recurrent VAIN as soon as possible after treatment.
LXA(4) plays an important role in keeping the normal shape of HUVEC under hypoxia, can enhance survival of hypoxial HUVEC and decrease the level of vWF in cytoplasm. The protective mechanism might be via decreasing mitochondria Ca(2+) overload and increasing cytoplasm Ca(2+) by nucleus Ca(2+) transference.
Open surgery maintains its important role for treatment of renal and ureteral calculi because of its safety and efficacy. Nephrectomy for nonfunctioning kidney with renal and/or ureteral calculi, huge and complex renal calculi, anatomical abnormalities, minimal invasive therapies failure and some selective patients with co-morbid medical diseases are suitable for open stone surgery with high success and low morbidity rate.
The percentage of uric acid stones had obvious advanced. Less daily water intake, eating salted food, eating more animal food, less vegetables and daily orange juice intake, eating sea food are the mainly dietary risk factors to the formation of uric acid calculus. Urine volume, the value of pH, citric acid, urine calcium, urine uric acid and the blood natrium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, uric acid have significant influence to the information of uric acid stones.
Our study shows that endoscopy in treating urinary tract calculi is safe and feasible in preschool children.
Inversion-table treatment is a safe and valuable adjunct in assisting passage of lower pole renal stone fragments after mini-invasive treatment of stone and can improve stone-free rate.
Ureteroscopic management can be preferred for the patients with disadvantage of ESWL in some condition.
Irrigation fluid is absorbed during mini-percutaneous nephrolithotomy. The absorption amount is positively correlated with irrigation time. Changes of hemodynamics, fluid-electrolyte balance and renin may be caused by the irrigation fluid absorption.
The early and midterm outcomes are no significant difference between CEA and CAS, but in China, the cost of hospitalization in CAS is much higher than that of CEA.
Endovenous radiofrequency combined with TriVex for treatment of venous insufficiency in lower extremity is available, effective and with less trauma and faster recovery. CEAP classification, VCSS and CIVIQ are useful tools for assessing outcomes after radiofrequency in these patients.
For patients with Crohn disease, perioperative combined nutritional support is more efficient than total enteral or parental nutrition support.
The minimal invasive operation with gallbladder preserved via choledochoscopy is effective to cholecystolithiasis patients whose gallbladder function is normal. It is a feasible operation that preserves the normal functional gallbladder and improves the patients' life quality.
Over-expression of B7-H1 may be responsible for the increasing IL-10 production in pancreatic cancer, which caused reduced immune response to tumor cells and contributed to pancreatic carcinoma escape from immune attack.
Both of activation and concentration of insulin at PN decreased gradually and slightly with the time no matter the ways of insulin infusion. Activation of insulin and blood glucoses in patients are no significant differences between the two groups. Insulin can be safely added into "all in one" bags at PN.
The percentage disc height and the lumbar lordosis angle can predict the outcomes of reduction of lumbar spondylolisthesis.
The thoracic vertebrae are higher and slimmer in scoliotic patient than in normal age-matched girls which implied that there is abnormal endochondral ossification on spine during adolescent growth spurt.
The trabecular metal has strong capacity of bone conductive and bone inducement.
Nitrofen interferes with lung development in early stage of the fetal before the diaphragm developed. TGF-beta1 would be one of the important factors which lead to pulmonary hypoplasia.
Collagen-chitosan porous scaffold plays a very important role in wound healing of full thickness skin defect and can induce fibroblast infiltration and new micro-vessel formation. Epidermis grafted on surface of collagen-chitosan porous scaffold can perfectly repair wounds, and it has brilliant applied prospects in repairing skin defect.
Our data strongly argue that preclinical assessment should not be restricted to a single type of assay, as systematic underestimation or overestimation of activities would be inevitable.
Medical students at the University of Calgary consume less alcohol and cigarettes than a comparable population. However, a high proportion of students are at risk for alcohol abuse according to the CAGE questionnaire. The results of this study suggest that although the quantity of alcohol consumed is not a substantial concern at this time, students might be at risk for future alcohol abuse.
Basic psychological competency and the awareness of the self in relation to the patient can be fostered through attendance at a case discussion group. With some limitations, Balint groups continue to be a useful way of introducing young psychiatrists to psychological processes.
Use of a required web-based medical encounter reporting system for student-patient-faculty encounters during a psychiatry clerkship can be of significant value in assessing what students are seeing, doing, and learning on this required third-year experience. The results provide helpful current information to the clerkship director and data that help the director modify the clerkship on an ongoing basis to better meet students' educational needs.
Psychiatry teaching needs to be made more relevant to the rest of the medical curricula. This may improve students' interest and their future choice of psychiatry as an area of specialization.
Residents' participation in research has been advanced through participation in PART. Ensuring research competency among all psychiatrists is crucial to providing the best science-based care; PART represents a cost-effective way to integrate research training with psychiatric residency. The authors also discuss opportunities and obstacles to developing research programs as part of psychiatric residency training.
The authors identify multiple points to consider when constructing intervention-related grant applications. The points are presented here as questions and do not reflect institute policy or comprise a list of best practices, but rather represent points for consideration.
It is hoped that awareness of these difficulties and demystification of the process for future investigators can minimize the potential encumbrances in such international research.
Weighting publications by whether they were peer-reviewed and by authorship position appears to have little benefit over a simple counting of the number of publications. Publication during research training and the pursuit of funding for additional individual research training may be appropriate short-term goals within an institutional research training program.
Creating a formal program to encourage interaction of scientists and clinical teachers provided a forum for identifying some of the barriers associated with the collaboration of scientists and clinical teachers. Our data point to directions for organizational structures and faculty development that support the integration of scientists from a wide range of disciplines with their clinical faculty colleagues.
The authors believe that a practice plan which assigns a monetary value to administrative duties, teaching, scholarship, community service, and research can incentivize faculty to be successful in each of these areas.
Conferences can be an important way to promote NIH scientific goals, by disseminating new findings, facilitating collaborations, and stimulating new lines of research.
c-Met is the substrate of ST6Gal-I. The hyposialylation of c-Met can abolish cell motility in ST6Gal-I-KD HCT116 cells.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1039-1045; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.84; published online 1 June 2009.
The PPARalpha agonist AVE8134 prevents post-MI myocardial hypertrophy, fibrosis and cardiac dysfunction. AVE8134 has beneficial effects against hypertension-induced organ damages, resulting in decreased mortality. The compound exerts its protective properties by a direct effect on cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, but also indirectly via monocyte signaling and increased endothelial NO production.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 935-946; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.58; published online 8 June 2009.
All these findings help form an alternative view to understand the mechanisms underlying the inhibitory effects of JG3 on cell motility.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1033-1038; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.97; published online 22 June 2009.
These findings reveal that statins exhibits differential effects on mRNA expression of drug transporters, and this effect depends on the cell type. Furthermore, alterations in the expression levels of drug transporters in the liver and/or intestine may contribute to the variability in oral disposition of statins.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 956-964; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.85; published online 22 June 2009.
The high concentration ratio of synovial fluid to plasma indicates direct penetration of meloxicam following topical administration to the target tissue. This finding is further supported by the differences observed in meloxicam concentrations in synovial fluid in the treated and untreated joints at the same time point. Our results suggest that transdermal delivery of meloxicam is a promising method for decreasing its adverse systemic effects.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1060-1064; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.73; published online 8 June 2009.
MS80 in particular, and perhaps oligosaccharide in general, offer better pharmacological profiles with appreciably few side effects and represent a promising class of drug candidates for IPF therapy.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 973-979; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.86; published online 22 June 2009.
These data suggest that CIHH protects the heart against I/R injury through upregulation of antioxidant enzymes in guinea pig.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 947-955; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.57; published online 22 June 2009.
BMP6 ameliorated the TGF-beta1-induced changes in HK-2 cells. The suppression of TGF-beta1-mediated JNK and Smad2/3 signaling activation were implicated in these effects.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 994-1000; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.56; published online 22 June 2009.
A(1)R-mediated EGFR transactivation confers a neuroprotective effect in primary cortical neurons. PI3 kinase and Src kinase play pivotal roles in this response.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 889-898; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.80.
Our results demonstrate that liquiritigenin exhibits neuroprotective effects against Abeta(25-35)-induced neurotoxicity and that it can decrease the secretion of Abeta(1-40). Therefore, liquiritigenin may be useful for further study as a prodrug for treatment of Alzheimer's disease.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 899-906; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.74.
These results show that NAC enhanced both neuron differentiation and neuritogenesis, suggesting that it may be used in the development of novel therapeutic approaches targeting neuron loss and neurite dystrophy in neurodegenerative diseases.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 907-912; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.72.
Ngb contributes to neuronal defensive machinery against oxidative injuries by regulating 14-3-3gamma expression.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 913-918; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.70.
RNAi-mediated downregulation of Beclin1 improves outcomes after transient MCAO.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 919-927; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.79.
Taken together, beta(2)-AR stimulation increases the expression of nonphosphorylated Cx43, thereby enhancing the gating function of gap junctions in cardiac myocytes in both a protein kinase A- and G(i)-dependent manner.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 928-934; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.92.
The inhibition of airway relaxation and the augmentation of contraction mediated by receptors contribute to airway hyperresponsiveness and involve CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 965-972; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.61.
In combination with antifungal therapy, NAC treatment can alleviate oxidative stress and lung injury associated with IPA in neutropenic mice.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 980-986; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.83.
In colitis mice, the anti-colitis effect of balsalazine results in a decrease in intestinal mucosal permeability. The mechanism of this effect is partly associated with balsalazine's antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 987-993; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.77.
Our research suggests that intermittent PTH treatment induces changes in expression of many proteins in ROBs in vitro, and it results in RhoGDIalpha up-regulation in ROBs both in vitro and in vivo when estrogen is present. This up-regulation of RhoGDIalpha may be one of the mechanisms underlying the synergistic bone-forming effect of PTH and estrogen.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1001-1007; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.60.
We have demonstrated that YCP-induced NO production occurs through the TLR4 and CR3 membrane receptors in a p38 kinase-dependent manner in macrophages.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1008-1014; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.93.
Arbidol has the ability to elicit protective antiviral activity against HTNV in vivo and in vitro.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1015-1024; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.53; published online 8 June 2009.
LDM induces apoptosis in murine myeloma SP2/0 cells as well as in human myeloma U266 and SKO-007 cell lines. The sustained activation of JNK might play a critical role in LDM-induced apoptosis in the SP2/0 cell line. LDM demonstrates significant antitumor efficacy against myeloma SP2/0 cells in mice. Taken together, our data provide some clues for further research of the effects of LDM on human multiple myeloma.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1025-1032; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.75.
Inhibition of the proteasome can induce autophagy in human SHG-44 glioma cells, and inhibition of autophagy increases cell death. This discovery may shed new light on the effect of autophagy on modulating the fate of SHG-44 glioma cells.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1046-1052; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.71.
Enhanced SSTR2 expression played an antiproliferative role in MCF-7 cells through inducing apoptosis and G(1)/S cell cycle arrest, and also by decreasing EGFR expression, thereby counteracting the growth-stimulating effect of EGF. Our data seem to indicate that developing a new therapeutic agent capable of upregulating SSTR expression could potentially be a way to block tumor progression.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1053-1059; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.59.
We found that a high plasma level of estradiol in postmenopausal women receiving long-term HRT was correlated with the survival of brain parenchyma.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 1065-1070; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.81.
Daily practice with standard airway mannequins by a critical care transport team did not improve intubation success on actual patients.
Hispanics with genotype 2 and 3 HCV infection treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin are less likely to achieve SVR compared with NHW. The lower rate of SVR in Hispanic patients is, in part, because of an increased rate of relapse after ETR.
A significant proportion of visits to US EDs for acute gastrointestinal illnesses are associated with a delay in initial clinical assessment. Hispanic patients waited longer and had a higher frequency of delays compared with other racial/ethnic groups. Future policies should be directed at reducing delays in physician assessment and addressing this healthcare disparity.
In patients using long-term esomeprazole for reflux esophagitis, screening for and eradicating H. pylori infection are necessary in order to limit the progression or cause the regression of gastric precancerous changes.
MRCP-S detected ductal findings consistent with chronic pancreatitis in one-third of CPH cases. Pancreas divisum and some dysfunction at the level of Vater's papilla were reported in 8 and 12% of the patients, respectively. MRCP-S is to be recommended, instead of MRCP, in the diagnostic work-up of CPH subjects.
The treatment choice for patients with inoperable esophageal cancer should be between a SEMS or a non-stent treatment after consideration has been given to both patient and tumor characteristics and clinician and patient preferences.
Similar to other autoimmune diseases such as celiac disease, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, Graves' disease, and psoriatic arthritis, genetic variation in the chromosome 4q27 region predisposes to UC, suggesting a common genetic background for these diseases.
A single-item, patient-defined disease activity measure, the MIBDI, showed a high degree of sensitivity for classifying individuals with regard to disease status over time compared with the existing disease activity measures, and strong convergent validity with expected proxy measures of disease. These relationships remained consistent over time. Thus, the MIBDI shows promise as a valid, brief tool for measuring disease activity over an extended period.
Our results provide evidence for genetic interactions between polymorphisms in TLR9 and CD-associated variants in NOD2, IL23R, and DLG5, differentially modulating CD susceptibility.
The so-called inactive carrier state cannot be generally viewed as an innocent long-lasting condition of good prognosis; regular follow-up is necessary.
CD patients and their first-degree HRs are more frequently and more heavily colonized by C. albicans than are controls. ASCAs correlate with C. albicans colonization in HRs but not in CD. In HRs, ASCAs could result from an altered immune response to C. albicans. In CD, a subsequent alteration in sensing C. albicans colonization could occur with disease onset.
The risk of PD decreased with increasing pre-transplant abstinence. Our data support pre-transplant abstinence as an important predictor of post-transplant recidivism; however, the optimal period of abstinence remains unclear. Patients with &lt;18 months of abstinence may benefit from more intensive follow-up and rehabilitation after transplant.
Alosetron, cilansetron, and tegaserod are all effective in the treatment of IBS. Serious adverse events were rare in the eligible RCTs included in this systematic review.
There is a subset of HIV patients without cirrhosis but with PH compatible with IPH. In these patients, the hepatic and systemic hemodynamic profile is similar to other forms of IPH. The histological profile reflects an underlying vascular disorder affecting the medium-sized portal vein branches. Development of portal vein thrombosis is a frequent complication and requires close monitoring.
These data identify FASN as a potential biomarker and a novel therapeutic target in distinct molecular subtypes of CRC.
The findings from this Australian population-based cohort study support a strong association between ALT concentration and Met S independent of insulin resistance. Serum ALT level does not appear to contribute significantly to cardiovascular risk assessment.
Psychological factors and somatization are strongly associated with IBS in the community. However, IBS may not be related to low psychological distress and/or somatization.
This study shows that baclofen is also effective in patients with GERD with +HH, further underscoring the potential of reflux inhibitors as treatment of GERD.
Time of performance of colonoscopy seems to be an independent predictor for adenoma detection. ADR was significantly higher in morning colonoscopies than in afternoon colonoscopies. The reasons and implications of this finding should be studied further.
Low-dose nurse-administered propofol sedation is safe and practical for diagnostic EGD.
Over the past decade, there has been a progressive change in the overall picture of GI events leading to hospitalization, with a clear decreasing trend in upper GI events and a significant increase in lower GI events, causing the rates of these two GI complications to converge. Overall, mortality has also decreased, but the in-hospital case fatality of upper or lower GI complication events has remained constant. It will be a challenge to improve future care in this area unless we develop new strategies to reduce the number of events originating in the lower GI tract, as well as reducing their associated mortality.
Alvimopan is a selective mu-opioid receptor antagonist with no central nervous system activity. When orally administered after partial small- or large-bowel resection in patients with primary anastomosis, alvimopan shortened the return of bowel function and time to discharge by approximately one day without compromising analgesia. Alvimopan was not shown to be beneficial on these same outcomes after hysterectomy and has not been studied in other surgical populations. Alvimopan is generally well tolerated, with the frequency of adverse events being similar to placebo when used postoperatively for one week or less. Long-term studies of alvimopan in opioid-induced bowel dysfunction have shown an association with adverse cardiovascular outcomes, neoplasms, and fractures. Because of these concerns, the Entereg Access Support and Education program was developed. The recommended dosage of alvimopan is 12 mg administered with a sip of water 30 minutes to five hours before surgery, followed by 12 mg twice daily beginning the day after surgery for a maximum of seven days, 15 total doses, or until discharge. There is a limited amount of pharmacoeconomic analysis concerning alvimopan.
Alvimopan, a peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist, is a novel agent for the treatment of postoperative ileus. It appears to decrease the duration of postoperative ileus and hospitalization by approximately one day, theoretically offsetting its acquisition costs. Unresolved long-term safety issues, a limited indication, and its restricted-access program are likely to hinder its widespread use in the surgical population.
The U.S. government is investing over $1 billion on CER over the next two years. This investment is in part driven by the recognition that, despite having the highest per capita health care expenditures in the world, the United States does not always perform well on measures of health compared with other countries. There also is increased awareness of the limited information provided by results of traditional randomized clinical trials to inform decisions about therapeutic alternatives as applied in actual practice. Comparative effectiveness studies have two important principal components: (1) the comparison of two or more agents or interventions that are considered true therapeutic alternatives and (2) the examination of effects (outcomes) in actual practice. Comparative effectiveness studies differ from traditional efficacy studies in several ways, including the research question addressed, comparison groups, patient population, setting, outcomes measured, and validity. Studies that are within the scope of CER can be categorized as primary comparative effectiveness studies or secondary comparative effectiveness studies. CER also can be used to compare medical devices, procedures, health services, or any competing intervention.
Comparative effectiveness is an emerging area of research relevant to many areas of health care, especially pharmacotherapy. The knowledge gained from CER is important to pharmacists when applying drug information and making decisions related to drug therapy.
A 60-year-old white man arrived at the emergency department complaining of confusion and disorientation. He was 5 ft 7 in tall and weighed 108.9 kg. His medical and surgical histories included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), sleep apnea not requiring biphasic positive airway pressure, obesity, oxygen supplementation, and appendectomy. He also had a history of cyst drainage on the back of his neck, with recent drainage emitting a foul odor, and suffered recurrent herpes cold sores on his chin. A lumbar puncture revealed abnormal cerebral spinal fluid. A diagnosis of herpes encephalitis was considered, and the patient was empirically treated with i.v. acyclovir 1 g over 60 minutes every eight hours, with the dosage based on actual body weight. He was also given moxifloxacin 400 mg i.v. daily for possible COPD exacerbation and doxycycline 100 mg i.v. twice daily for possible leptospirosis meningitis. On hospital day 3, his serum creatinine (SCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentrations rose to 2.8 g/dL and 32 mg/dL, respectively. Acyclovir was subsequently discontinued, as were all i.v. antibiotics. On day 7, hydration therapy was initiated, as was therapy to alkalinize the urine, and his neurologic status began to improve. At discharge, the patient's SCr and BUN levels were 3.1 g/dL and 38 mg/dL, respectively. His discharge diagnoses included encephalitis with possible viral origin and acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity.
An obese man receiving excessive doses of i.v. acyclovir developed acute but reversible renal failure.
The most common substances involved in 10-fold medication errors reported to U.S. poison control centers were histamine H(2)-receptor antagonists and metoclopramide. Most exposures occurred in the home and involved children 12 months of age or younger.
A pharmacist-driven DTI protocol was established to help establish guidelines for the use and monitoring of DTIs to ensure the effective and safe administration of these high-risk medications. The CDTM service and DTI dosing protocol, including order form development, were completed over a two-year period. The DTI order form consisted of five main sections: practice points pertaining to the clinical diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), initiation of DTIs, nurse- and pharmacist-driven instructions for the monitoring of DTI therapy, information to safely transition a patient from a DTI to warfarin, and a scoring system for determining the probability of HIT. A CDTM service for the inpatient setting was developed to improve patient outcomes and reduce medication errors related to the monitoring and adjusting of DTI dosages. To implement this service, three major areas were addressed: the credentialing of pharmacists, the ordering process, and required documentation. Challenges encountered during protocol development were eliminating the use of lepirudin, developing a comprehensive order form for two DTIs, obtaining approval of the DTI dosing protocol by the medical executive committee, and developing and implementing a comprehensive nursing education program for the new order form and protocol.
A dosing protocol for DTIs was developed to improve the use of these high-risk medications within an institution. The protocol provided physicians with the option of deferring DTI dosing to a pharmacist with appropriate credentials.
A multidisciplinary team was formed to address the development, implementation, and management of an automatic pneumococcal vaccination program. Screening of patients was performed by the nursing staff on admission to the hospital; the screening process was streamlined using computer-generated assessment forms. The electronic program enabled systematic identification of patients eligible for vaccination, standardization of vaccine order instructions, documentation of vaccinations in a centralized electronic database, automatic documentation of vaccinations on patients' discharge instructions, and collection of vaccination data for future analysis. If vaccination was indicated, an electronic order was automatically generated for the vaccine to be administered within 24 hours. The electronic order appeared on the electronic medication administration record like any other medication. Given the prominent role of nursing in the protocol, the largest training effort was in the nursing department, with education targeting 1200 nurses. Precautions were taken to minimize unintended duplicate vaccine administration. Patients were excluded from the vaccination protocol if they were younger than age 65 years, had a fever, were still in an intensive care unit, had an acute neurologic disorder, or had any condition for which there was doubt about the safety or appropriateness of the vaccination. Multidisciplinary resources are used to further reevaluate and refine the vaccine protocol.
A multidisciplinary team successfully developed and implemented an electronically based, nurse-driven pneumococcal vaccination protocol for hospitalized patients in a teaching hospital.
This study underscores the major role of carbapenem-hydrolyzing class D beta-lactamases, and in particular the acquired OXA-23, in the dissemination of imipenem-resistant A. baumannii. The co-occurrence of additional resistance determinant could also be a significant threat.
We have demonstrated that theoretical lectures and standard mannequin-based driven workshops improved overall theoretical knowledge but did not translated to practical skill during of realistic mannequin-based simulations. Realistic mannequin-based simulations teaching programs in the field of difficult tracheal intubation should be considered.
ScvO(2) could be a relevant biological parameter to complete the current guidelines for BT in stable patient with a central venous catheter during the postoperative period.
In critically ill patients with acute circulatory failure, BNP does not accurately predict fluid responsiveness.
We found clinically unacceptable agreement between CO(ICG) and CO(PAC) in this setting. Despite its non invasiveness, this device cannot be recommended for CO monitoring in the postoperative period following cardiac surgery.
There is a growing field of pharmacogenetic related evidences in anesthesiology. The results from various animal and human studies underline the genetic origin of variability among individuals. How anaesthesists have to integrate these parameters for their daily practice is still unclear, but pharmacogenetic will obviously be a leading field of anesthesia research in the future.
A clinical overview of lentigo maligna, acral lentiginous and subungual melanoma, nodular melanoma, desmoplastic melanoma, verrucous melanoma and hypomelanotic melanoma is presented. Dermoscopy has become a vital diagnostic aid in the assessment of all skin lesions. Its value in the diagnosis of melanoma is highlighted where relevant. Expert dermatopathology assessment is equally as crucial in reaching a correct diagnosis, especially for some of these atypical variants.
Infections, contact reactions and drug eruptions should always be considered. Occasionally blistering may represent a cutaneous manifestation of a metabolic disease such as porphyria. Although rare, it is important to be aware of the autoimmune group of blistering diseases, as if unrecognised and untreated, they can lead to significant morbidity and mortality. Early referral to a dermatologist is important as management of blistering skin conditions can be challenging.
Aggressive BCCs can invade widely before exhibiting obvious clinical signs. Suspicious skin lesions should have an adequate biopsy taken to guide management options. Complete BCC excision is usually the best treatment, but particular care should be taken when treating lesions on cosmetically or functionally sensitive areas. Recurrent disease can also be difficult and disfiguring to treat. Specialist involvement will be needed for the management of some BCCs. Basal cell carcinomas can recur years after treatment. Regular skin checks are important for high risk patients.
Skin manifestations of systemic disease are wide, varied, specific and nonspecific. Generalised pruritus and cutaneous vasculitis are more common cutaneous presentations where an underlying systemic disease may be present and will influence management. In certain chronic diseases such as connective tissue disease and chronic liver disease, there are characteristic cutaneous findings. Internal malignancies such as multiple myeloma may present with distinctive cutaneous findings, which need to be recognised to institute a search for the underlying neoplasm. The skin has the potential to provide a window into the patient and aid in the diagnosis of diseases of all organ systems.
There is good evidence to support the use of MRI for cancer screening in younger women at high genetic risk of breast cancer. Its use for assessing the extent of disease in the breast after breast cancer is diagnosed (local staging) is controversial. Certainly MRI is more sensitive than conventional imaging for detecting multifocal/ multicentric disease, however, there is evidence that some women have more extensive surgery as a result of MRI without clear evidence of benefit. There is no role for MRI as a substitute for mammography or for screening women at average risk of breast cancer. It also has no routine role as a diagnostic test in women with symptoms.
Over the past few years, more community acquired cases of MRSA have occurred. Methicillin resistant S. aureus usually infects skin and soft tissue. Occasionally, a life threatening infection occurs involving the blood, lungs, heart and bone.
Clinicians need to be aware that nonhealing is not infrequent, particularly in indigenous people.
Half the Chinese patients presenting at this general practice were at high risk of psychological distress (as measured by standard screening instruments). The proportion of patients in this study at risk of psychological distress on screening is more than would be expected in the general Australian population. Though limited by a small sample size and a single general practice location, these findings are of concern and should direct further research.
Some trends emerged. Longer and more detailed training programs correlated with better subsequent knowledge retention and safety. Two days of training may not make doctors sufficiently safe in skin cancer management; it appeared to improved knowledge, but not to a point where unsafe practice was eliminated.
Overall, this study has demonstrated significant correlations between MSD and psychosocial risk factors among a large cohort of veterinarians, apparently for the first time in the published literature. The results also suggest that personal and workplace issues may contribute more to the development of MSD among veterinarians than many of the previously recognised ergonomic risk factors.
Although low pathogenic AI virus subtypes are currently circulating in Australia, their prevalence is low (1.0% positive PCR). Surveillance activities for AI in wild birds should be continued to provide further epidemiological information about circulating viruses and to identify any changes in subtype prevalence.
In this study, INRA 96 combined with 4% glycerol yielded an average recovery of progressively motile sperm consistently above the 35% target.
Although hypocobalaminaemia is uncommon in sick cats with non-alimentary tract illness in Australia, its occurrence in this study warrants further investigation.
Topical treatment with HCA showed a rapid and potent antipruritic effect on dogs with FAD. HCA also demonstrated significant overall therapeutic effects on FAD-associated skin lesions.
and Clinical Relevance In both cats and dogs, a MAX-ACT result &gt;85 s should be considered abnormal and further coagulation testing should be performed. Additionally, failure to discard the first few drops of the sample does not appear to significantly affect results.
goeBURST is a globally optimized implementation of the eBURST algorithm, that identifies alternative patterns of descent for several bacterial species. Furthermore, the algorithm can be applied to any multilocus typing data based on the number of differences between numeric profiles. A software implementation is available at http://goeBURST.phyloviz.net.
We find that including constraints based on the separation of secondary structure elements increases the accuracy of protein structure search using maximally-similar subtableau extraction, to a level where it has comparable or superior accuracy to existing techniques. We demonstrate that our implementation is able to search a structural database in a matter of hours on a standard PC.
GM3 and pSTAT3 are widely expressed in NSCLC. Based on CD83 expression, GM3, but not pSTAT3, appeared to be involved in tumor-induced DC suppression. pSTAT3 expression was not associated with MVD, while GM3 might play an anti-angiogenic role.
Primary defects in LPL and C-II are rare in survivors of acute hypertriglyceridaemic pancreatitis; lipase activity measurements should be restricted to those having their first episode during childhood.
The most critical positions that may alter the pathogen recognition ability of TLR were: the 9th amino acid position in LRR motif (TLR1-LRR10) and 4th residue downstream to LRR domain (exta-LRR region of TLR4). The study describes novel mutations in the TLRs and presents their association with the MAP infection.
Our data indicate that an ancestral gene, originated as a rearranged portion of the primate DDX11 gene, and propagated along many subtelomeric locations, is emerging within subtelomeres of human chromosomes, defining a novel gene family. These findings support the possibility that the high plasticity of these regions, sites of DNA exchange among different chromosomes, could trigger the emergence of new genes.
Nursing intervention by telephone follow-up after an injury event, is a cost effective method giving improved QALY to a very low cost, especially for those with minor injuries.
Physician attitudes towards obesity are associated with competency, specialty, and years since postgraduate training. Further study is necessary to determine the direction of influence and to explore the impact of these attitudes on patient care.
Our results indicate that solid tumors can affect the production of macrophage cytokines and, in consequence, affect host resistance to opportunistic infections.
LOH on 5q is non-random, but local factors do not greatly influence the rate of LOH at APC or explain inter differential susceptibility to colorectal tumours.
Our results suggest several key biological network modules that are involved in regulating neurotoxicity of reactive astrocytes in glaucoma, and comprise potential targets for cell-based therapy.
These results suggest that MMP-1 and IL-8 are both involved in the exercise-induced stress response, and this represents a starting point from which to understand the adaptive responses to this phenomenon.
ASDs are clinical syndromes characterized by impaired social interaction and non-verbal communication in adulthood as well as in childhood. They also carry a high risk for co-existing mental health problems from a broad spectrum of disorders and for unfavourable psychosocial life circumstances. For the next revision of DSM, our findings especially stress the importance of careful examination of the exclusion criterion for adult patients with ASDs.
The men living in the urban slums reported higher rates of smoking cigarettes and bidis as compared to men living in the urban non-slums. Some of the significant correlates of smoking e.g. education and division should be considered for prevention activities. Our findings clearly underscore the necessity of interventions and preventions by policy makers, public health experts and other stakeholders in slums because smoking was more prevalent in the slum communities with detrimental health sequelae.
The present study analyzed the frequency and hallmarks of cases of HSV-1 associated pneumonitis that occurred in a comparatively large cohort of patients with rheumatologic autoimmune diseases. In an area of controversy, this study provides further evidence that HSV-1 causes isolated pneumonitis in the immunocompromised. The study may provide an estimate on the frequency of relevant HSV-1 infection and bacterial agents in outpatients with autoimmune disease.
The CAPMotion quality can be used by inexperienced assessors with sufficient reliability in daily clinical practice and showed acceptable accuracy compared to the criterion.
The analytical methods and insights presented in this study demonstrate that reallocation of the feedback loop may or may not make the system more stable; the specific effect is determined by the degradation rates of the newly inhibited molecular species. As the loop moves closer to the end of the pathway, the minimum Hill coefficient for oscillation is reduced. Furthermore, under general (unequal) values of the degradation rates, system extension becomes more stable only when the added species degrades slower than it is being produced; otherwise the system is more prone to oscillation. The coupling of loops significantly increases the richness of dynamical bifurcation characteristics. The likelihood of having oscillatory behaviour is directly determined by the loops' strength: stronger loops always result in smaller oscillatory regions.
ChemChains combines the advantages of logical and continuous modeling and provides a way for laboratory biologists to perform in silico experiments on mathematical models easily, a necessary component of laboratory research in the systems biology era.
The results support efforts to inform the public about specific actions that can reduce the risks from swine flu and to communicate about the government's plans and resources. Tackling the perception that the outbreak has been "over-hyped" may be difficult but worthwhile. Additional research is required into differing reactions to the outbreak among ethnic groups.
Living in a relationship with a partner might imply cognitive and social challenges that have a protective effect against cognitive impairment later in life, consistent with the brain reserve hypothesis. The specific increased risk for widowed and divorced people compared with single people indicates that other factors are needed to explain parts of the results. A sociogenetic disease model might explain the dramatic increase in risk of Alzheimer's disease for widowed apolipoprotein E e4 carriers.
The Tanzania National Voucher Scheme was associated with impressive increases in the coverage of insecticide treated nets over a two year period. Gaps in coverage remain, however, especially in the poorest groups. A voucher system that facilitates routine delivery of insecticide treated nets is a feasible option to "keep up" coverage.
We proposed a tool named MetaTISA with an aim to improve TIS prediction of current gene-finders for metagenomes. The method employs a two-step strategy to predict translation initiation sites (TISs) by first clustering metagenomic fragments into phylogenetic groups and then predicting TISs independently for each group in an unsupervised manner. As evaluated on experimentally verified TISs, MetaTISA greatly improves the accuracies of TIS prediction of current gene-finders.
We present a tool called Rahnuma for prediction and analysis of metabolic pathways and comparison of metabolic networks. Rahnuma represents metabolic networks as hypergraphs and computes all possible pathways between two or more metabolites. It provides an intuitive way to answer biological ques- tions focusing on differences between organisms or the evolution of different species by allowing pathway-based metabolic network comparisons at an organism as well as at a phylogenetic level.
Computing the reversal distance and searching for an optimal sequence of reversals to transform a unichromosomal genome into another are useful algorithmic tools to analyse real evolutionary scenarios. Currently, these problems can be solved by at least two available softwares, the prominent of which are GRAPPA and GRIMM. However, the number of different optimal sequences is usually huge and taking only the distance and/or one example is often insufficient to do a proper analysis. Here, we offer an alternative and present baobabLUNA, a framework that contains an algorithm to give a compact representation of the whole space of solutions for the sorting by reversals problem.
We have developed a web server for the high-throughput annotation of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) called pipeline for EST analysis service (PESTAS). PESTAS processes entire datasets with an automated pipeline of 13 analytic services, then deposits the data into the MySQL database and transforms it into three kinds of reports: preprocessing, assembling and annotation. All annotated information is provided to the scientist and can be downloaded through a web browser. To get more relevant functional annotation results, a curation function was introduced with which biologists can easily change the best-hit annotation information. We included a gene chip module that detects gene expression differences between libraries by comparing accession number counts from BLAST search results. PESTAS also provides access to the pathway information of KEGG, which is useful for mapping the relationships among networks of annotated enzymes, and is especially valuable for those researchers interested in biological pathways.
Apollo is a genome annotation-editing tool with an easy to use graphical interface. It is a component of the GMOD project, with ongoing development driven by the community. Recent additions to the software include support for the generic feature format version 3 (GFF3), continuous transcriptome data, a full Chado database interface, integration with remote services for on-the-fly BLAST and Primer BLAST analyses, graphical interfaces for configuring user preferences and full undo of all edit operations. Apollo's user community continues to grow, including its use as an educational tool for college and high-school students.
The rtracklayer package supports the integration of existing genome browsers with experimental data analyses performed in R. The user may (i) transfer annotation tracks to and from a genome browser and (ii) create and manipulate browser views to focus on a particular set of annotations in a specific genomic region. Currently, the UCSC genome browser is supported.
NTAP is designed to analyze ChIP-chip data generated by the NimbleGen tiling array platform and to accomplish various pattern recognition tasks that are useful especially for epigenetic studies. The modular design of NTAP makes the data processing highly customizable. Users can either use NTAP to perform the full process of NimbleGen tiling array data analysis, or choose post-processing modules in NTAP to analyze pre-processed epigenetic data generated by other platforms. The output of NTAP can be saved in standard GFF format files and visualized in GBrowse.
Results show a higher percentage of genital HPV in comparison to the oral cavity, and suggest that genital HPV does not seem to be a predisposing factor for the oral infection in the same patient.
Patients with substernal goiter can be safely treated surgically through a single neck incision, bearing low complication rates.
these findings stress the importance of looking at EAEP in cases where there is suspicion of demyelinating disease and in patients with a defined diagnosis for MS.
We observed a reduction in PES pressure after BT injection, seen through CM in all the patients, with spasms improvement seen through videofluoroscopy.
There was no correlation between supraglottic tract adjustments with any particular type of glottic alteration. These are individual behaviors that generate adjustments and justify the different vocal qualities in patients with the same type of laryngeal alteration.
The study allows us to determine that FB can move through the body but not towards the heart. The study also serves as a warning sign: in cases of prolonged histories of FB ingestion, imaging studies are mandatory before endoscopic examination.
The cellulose blanket produced by Acetobacter xylinum presented good biocompatibility, remained stable during the entire study period, and could be considered a good material for elevating the nasal dorsum.
A high percentage of children showed worse results in the AFT-R, DD, SSW tests and in the PSI/SSIMCI tests. The best performances happened in the sound location tests, verbal and non-verbal sounds for sequential memory and for PSI/SSIMCC tests.
We found mortality stability and heterogeneity among the cities. The mortality profile according to social variables corroborates data found in other Brazilian States, except for race/color.
The paralysis was of sudden onset in 95% of the cases. Recovery was of 85% for grade I (House-Brackman) and 15% for grade II (House-Brackman). Treatment was clinical, with antibiotics and steroids - yielding good results. In those patients with electrical bad prognosis, facial nerve decompression turned their evolution into a favorable one.
Fz and Cz active electrodes positioning can be considered one more resource to help in the P300 clinical analysis.
The program tested 81.7% of the candidates. The program compliance rate was of 68.2%. In the first stage, 26.7% of the NBs failed. The program is being implemented and requires constant analyzes of its difficulties, aiming at solving them in order to turn the Universal Newborn Auditory Screening into reality.
Tinnitus has a relevant impact on the lives of the elderly; there was no correlation between the level of hearing loss and the level of patient dissatisfaction caused by tinnitus; and presbycusis was the most common finding in the audiometric tests.
Despite the fact that in some cases, some pathologists may make mistakes in the histopathological diagnosis of oral lichen planus, the results obtained in this study show that the alterations present in oral lichen planus differ considerably from those seen in epidermoid carcinoma, thus showing how distinct these two diseases are.
The FS is only indicated when the FNAB reports 'follicular neoplasm'.
We have concluded that it was possible to measure cochlear length from three dimensional MRI images, by employing the method hereby proposed.
Patients with allergic rhinitis have functional alterations in their stomatognathic system and an increase in nasal obstruction scores can be considered as a indication of such alterations.
Dysphonia affected the quality of life of all subjects regardless of their voice use.
We found a very significance bleeding difference favoring the 1:2,000. The blood pressure elevation in the 1:2,000 and 1:10,000 groups was progressive but very slow throughout the procedure, which could be associated with the anesthesia technique.
We favor the use of topical adrenalin 1:2,000 due to a clear superiority in hemostasis. Further investigation is needed to corroborate our findings.
Comparison between groups shows significant differences in many aspects of the vestibular analysis and calls our attention towards a possible participation of zinc on the genesis of vestibular disorders.
Despite low prevalence, oral homogeneous erythroplakia and speckled leukoplakia show Histopathological alterations vary from epithelial dysplasia to invasive carcinoma. These lesions must be included among those oral lesions with the highest potential for malignant tranformation.
Having such data, we can conclude that posterior semicircular canal BPPV has no impact on the hearing loss features of senior citizens; nonetheless, because of the spontaneous degeneration of the vestibulocochlear system, such population has a prevalence of hearing loss.
Internum ostium is the anterior segment and isthmus nasi is the posterior segment of the NV region.
The diversity of allergen exposure demonstrates the need for education about allergic diseases for patients and their families, as well as measures of reducing allergens in homes. This should be part of a global strategy of the management of allergic diseases, given that individuals live in society, not only in their houses.
Morphine represents a major tool to handle pain for a patient suffering of cancer. In Ivory Coast, the development of palliative care enables through national workshop to start a campaign in favor of the availability and easy geographical and financial accessibility of morphine (mainly morphine powder) whenever the prescription is required.
The childhood ovary tumours although rare, exist in Togo dominated by Burkitt lymphoma.
Stage T2b and pelvic lymph node involvement, but not tumour volume, are the major prognostic factors in intermediate stage cervical cancers. Pelvic lymph node involvement should be determined before treatment.
Our experimental data clearly shows the DNA protective action of dexamethasone and alpha-tocopherol with regard to oxidatively induced DNA damage, a major pathogenetic factor that inflammation and cancer have in common.
While the raise of peripheral temperature in advanced tumour was caused by neoangiogenesis, the reduction in skin surface temperature in an early period after tumour cell inoculation indicated a decay of transplanted tumour cells due to the immune response and the lack of blood supply. Thus, infrared thermal imaging may have considerable value in evaluation of the tumour development and discrimination of cancer from inflammation and haematoma.
These results suggested that high level of alpha 2, 3-linked sialic acid residues was associated with metastatic potential of gastric cancer cells.
Our findings suggest that the MDM2 309T&gt;G polymorphism is an important modulator of hepatocellular carcinoma development in Moroccan patients.
A disparity in the OC relative frequency exists in PR vs. NYC indicating a shortfall in biopsying potentially precancerous oral lesions in PR. PR residents with intraoral lesions suspicious for oral cancer/precancer are most likely to be biopsied only after developing an invasive OC.
Women were more likely to be identified with high-grade precancerous cervical lesions and cancer process when they did not have regular screening, Ethnic differences in screening outcomes seem to be minimized by participation in a program that provides consistent screening resources to the medically underserved women who enroll. These findings support prevention strategies that expand screening to all medically underserved younger women or that provide HPV vaccination at an early age.
Our results do not support significant main and modifying effects for GSTP1 promoter haplotypes on susceptibility to lung cancer in this population, but reinforce the protective effects of dietary intake of fruits and vegetables.
Although many of the summary results were positive, all were weak in magnitude, most were not statistically significant, and associations were attenuated among studies that adjusted for key potential confounding factors. In summary, the findings of this meta-analysis are not supportive of an independent relation between red or processed meat intake and kidney cancer.
It is suggested that NAT2 slow-acetylator, GSTM1 null, GSTM1/GSTT1-double null, and variant CYP2A6 genotypes may play important roles in the development of bladder cancer in Henan area, China.
Albumin is used as a plasma volume expander in priming solutions for cardiopulmonary bypass operations, but its effect on blood viscosity depends on the concentration of albumin used.
Diabetes mellitus significantly increases the incidence of graft sepsis and cardiovascular morbidity in patients undergoing above-the-knee femoro-popliteal bypass.
In newly diagnosed Nigerian hypertensives, the abnormalities in left ventricular diastolic function varied between the different left ventricular geometric patterns, being worst in those with concentric geometry.
Evaluation of left atrial size should be determined by several different measurements, and left atrial enlargement should be seen as a risk factor for advancing disease.
It may be preferable to continue statin therapy in vascular surgical patients even when CK is elevated, as this may decrease mortality if the CK elevation is in the presence of pre-existing renal dysfunction, peri-operative cardiac events or following embolectomy or fasciotomy. Further investigation is required to confirm this observation.
Water displacement and ankle circumference showed excellent reliability; however, water displacement is a time-consuming measure and may pose implementation challenges in the clinical and clinical trial environments. Patient-reported level and frequency of edema, based on an unvalidated questionnaire, was generally well correlated with the physician assessment of edema severity and may prove to be another reliable and accurate method of assessing edema. Additional study is needed to evaluate the validity and responsiveness of these methods.
The absence of a clinically significant within-subject difference in the changes in %HbA1c associated with fluticasone versus oral montelukast therapy, or between either therapy or baseline does not warrant recommending changes in therapy for asthma or diabetes in patients with these co-morbid conditions. However, we suggest that clinicians carefully monitor blood glucose control when diabetic patients initiate ICS, especially with higher dosages.
The triple negative subtype has the worst overall and disease free survival. Efforts should be directed at standardization of current testing methods and development of more reliable and reproducible testing.
Laparoscopic approach for rectal tumour is a technically demanding procedure, but it is oncologically safe.
MSI determination did not identify groups of patients with a different prognosis. Moreover, with such low incidence its determination can only be justified in those cases that fulfill Bethesda's criteria to identify families with Lynch's syndrome.
Quality of life 2 years after treatment for prostate cancer shows wide variability. Radical prostatectomy had the largest negative impact on the sexual and urinary incontinence domains. Differences between external radiation and brachytherapy were relatively small. Brachytherapy led to a moderate increase in urinary irritation compared to the other 2 groups.
In this series, the pre-treatment serum LDH level had an independent prognostic value for both PFS and OS in patients with high-grade localised extremity osteosarcoma. This measurement should be included in a large prospective prognostic series.
The direct comparison in our study of brain activity during the production of action-words and of object names did not reveal any major differences. However, our results point to a relationship between motor system dysfunction in PD and the extent of activation in verb generation, a task which implies in-depth processing of semantic representation of actions.
Sulphonylurea-treated subjects are more symptomatic of hypoglycaemia at a higher glucose level than insulin-treated subjects. This may protect them from severe hypoglycaemia but hinder attainment of glycaemic goals.
The seasonality of the incidence of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in children under 15 years of age is a real phenomenon, as was reported previously and as is now demonstrated by this large standardized study. The seasonality pattern appears to be dependent on the geographical position, at least as far as the northern/southern hemisphere dichotomy is concerned. However, more data are needed on the populations living below the 30th parallel north in order to complete the picture.
In 2004 the prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes, and the proportion of cases of diabetes that were undiagnosed, appear smaller than in previous studies. This is likely to be due to increased awareness of diabetes and improved clinical care resulting in many of those with previously undetected disease having been diagnosed.
Neuropad is a reliable diagnostic tool for both CAN and DPN, albeit of only moderate accuracy. Extending the observation period to 15 min provides greater diagnostic usefulness.
Based on results from a comprehensive assessment, the JADE Risk Engine successfully categorizes patients into different risk levels to guide clinical management.
The Comprehensive ICF Core Set for DM could be largely confirmed by the focus groups. Categories currently not covered by the Comprehensive ICF Core Set for DM should be investigated further.
Exposure to anti-IFRx more than doubled the odds of weight loss in T2DM patients. Results of this study justify a randomized clinical trial to determine definitively the role of anti-IFRx in weight loss in subjects with T2DM.
These results demonstrate that this microdialysis system allows reliable continuous glucose monitoring in patients with diabetes of either type.
Patients treated with exenatide QW or BID experienced significant and clinically meaningful improvements in treatment satisfaction and QOL. Patients who switched from exenatide BID to exenatide QW administration reported further significant improvements.
The DTSQ-IP is a novel, psychometrically validated and sensitive tool that adds to the DTSQ portfolio. The DTSQ-IP facilitates efforts to assess and improve treatment satisfaction in in-patients with diabetes.
Our study shows the parallel increase of apoC-II and C-III in Type 2 diabetic patients. This parallel increase is related to hypertriglyceridaemia only.
Patients with Type 1 diabetes (and their carers) evaluate the risk from blood glucose values differently from healthcare professionals. The euglycaemic state (zero ascribed risk) that patients chose was 0.8 mmol/l greater than that of healthcare professionals, indicating, perhaps, hypoglycaemia avoidance, a more pragmatic approach or less exposure to current trends in glycaemic control.
The compound omimCl was more resistant to oxidation then other compounds, which suggests that the oxidation rates of imidazolium ionic liquids by OH. are structure-dependent and are correlated with the n-alkyl chain length substituted at the N-1-position. The level of degradation was dependent on the type of head group. Replacing the imidazolium head group with pyridinium increased resistance to degradation. Nonetheless, lengthening the alkyl chain from four to eight carbons lowered the rate of ionic liquid degradation to a greater extent than changing the head group from imidazolium to pyridinium. 1H-NMR spectra show, in the first stage of degradation, that it is likely that radical attack is nonspecific, with any one of the carbon atoms in the ring and the n-alkyl chain being susceptible to attack.
The proposed method has proven to be an efficient and reliable method for the degradation of imidazolium ionic liquids by a Fenton-like reagent deteriorated with lengthening n-alkyl substituents and by replacing the imidazolium head group with pyridinium. The enhanced resistance of 1-butyl-3-methylpyridinium chloride when the resistance of imidazolium ionic liquids decreases with increasing H(2)O(2) concentration is probably indicative of a change in the degradation mechanism in a vigorous Fenton-like system. H-NMR spectra showed, in the first stage of degradation, that radical attack is nonspecific, with any one of the carbon atoms in the ring and the n-alkyl chain being susceptible to attack.
Since ionic liquids are now one of the most promising alternative chemicals of the future, the degradation and waste management studies should be integrated into a general development research of these chemicals. In the case of imidazolium and pyridinium ionic liquids that are known to be resistant to bio- or thermal degradation, studies in the field of AOPs should assist the future structural design as well as tailor the technological process of these chemicals.
Due to strong hydrophobicity and rare dissociation, DM has tendency toward absorption as compared to DC. The higher average degradation rates of DC initially treated by DM revealed the damage of the cell membranes caused by the DM and, thus, enhanced movement of DC into the cells. Following occurrence of phenolic breakdown products, DP suggested that DC should be intracellularly degraded to DP, which had a more potent mode of action and a higher acute toxicity. Moreover, the results for EC(50) at various intervals were in accordance with degradation processes of the initial compounds, in which rapid formation of DP was attributed to an increasing toxicity of DM.
The toxicity of DM in algal suspensions increased with time due to its degradation to DP, which contributed significantly to the determined toxicity. These results indicate that the toxicity of the pesticide probably depends significantly on degradation. It is thus important to consider the time-dependent environmental processes when evaluating the toxicological effects of pesticides for proper risk assessment.
Increasing transformation products of these contaminants are identified in the environment, although they seem to be unknown in terms of the lacking studies on environmental behavior and ecotoxicity concerning them. Certain breakdown products probably greatly contribute to the apparent toxicity of the parent compounds, which is ascribed to the parent compounds in general studies ignoring the dependence of their toxicity on various transformation pathways. These studies that identify new intermediates and assess their toxicity via the environmental processes will be helpful to distinguish the nature of toxicity of the parent contaminants.
Pys adsorption is a surface phenomenon which depends on the surface area and the organic matter content. Thus, the Black soil, having higher organic matter and greater surface area than that of the Red soil, show greater adsorption affinity to lambda-CHT and CPM. In our study, the different adsorption affinity of the two Pys was obtained, which was probably attributed to differences with respect to their physical-chemical properties. Further comparison upon the two Pys was conducted. The point charges of halogen atoms in the lambda-CHT and CPM were calculated, the differences of which probably lead to the fact that lambda-CHT has a stronger binding capacity to soils than CPM. Also, FTIR spectra show that competitive adsorption occurs between CPM and Cu for the same adsorption sites, which is responsible for the obtained suppression of CPM adsorption affected by Cu.
Lambda-cyhalothrin shows a significantly stronger adsorption than cypermethrin on both soils. This phenomenon may be due to several reasons: (1) lambda-CHT has lower solubility and a higher octanol-water partition coefficient value than CPM; (2) lambda-CHT consists of specific isomers, whereas CPM is mixtures of eight different isomers; (3) the chlorine and fluorine atoms in the lambda-CHT have a negative point charge, whereas the chlorine atoms in the CPM have a positive point charge. As the soil Cu concentrations increased from 19 (or 18) mg.kg(-1) to 1,600 mg.kg(-1), the adsorption coefficient of lambda-CHT and CPM decreased on both soils. This is mainly due to a competition between Cu and Pys for occupying the adsorption sites on soils. The information from this study have important implications for vineyard and orchard soils, which often contain elevated levels of Cu and Pys. These results are also useful in assessing the environmental fate and health effect of lambda-CHT and CPM.
It is important for environmental scientists and engineers to get a better understanding of soil-metal-organic contaminant interactions. However, pesticide adsorption involves complex processes, and shortcomings in understanding them still restrict the ability to predict the fate and behavior of pesticide. Therefore, considerable research should be carried out to understand the mechanism of interaction between Pys and heavy metal on soils clearly.
Glass composition together with environmental conditions and location of the patinas (internal or external parts of the stained glass window), as well as the provenance of the glass within the monastery, are the main factors that define the development of the new mineral phases. Moreover, the action of microorganisms, when present, can also strongly influence the development of some mineral phases. For example, the formation of calcite in the external parts of the stained glass (associated with the presence of oxalates) is related to the action of microorganisms. When calcite is formed in the internal parts of the glass and it is not associated with the presence of Ca-oxalates, an inorganic origin can be invoked. The presence of weddellite requires a very humid microenvironment with very little exposure to sunlight. In fact, this mineral phase has only been observed in the external parts of some glass located in the humid and shady side of the monastery. Whewellite (which only appears in the internal parts) needs a low degree of relative humidity. It has been observed that sulfur precipitating in basically one mineral phase (thenardite or gypsum) depends on the microenvironmental conditions of the moment and the glass composition. When thenardite occurs, it can be maintained that the original glass is of Na composition. The occurrence of quartz in all samples is interpreted as being due to the deposition of atmospheric particulate matter. The color of the patinas can be originated by different processes (presence of carotenes, organic pigmentation, atmospheric contamination, etc.).
In the case of moderately weathered stained glass windows, the combination of XRD and FTIR techniques is very useful to obtain a fast preliminary evaluation of the degree of weathering of a stained glass window. The presence of specific mineral phases in the patina (e.g., thenardite) confirms the Na composition of the original stained glass. This is important since Na-rich glass underwent a lesser degree of weathering than K- or K-Ca-rich glass. However, their absence cannot preclude other possibilities. It has been extensively evidenced through time that environmental conditions play an important role on the formation of the different mineral phases which form part of the patinas.
The first step in the restoration of a stained glass window is the evaluation of the degree of deterioration of the glass. This evaluation includes a chemical analysis of the glass as well as a characterization of the patinas developed on their surfaces. The obtained results will be essential in order to define the best restoration practices to be followed.
It is evident that the infochemical effect is a very complex sublethal endpoint, and it needs further studies with standardized quantitative methods to elucidate whether and to what extent the ecosystem is affected. The collection of approaches presented here is far from being complete but should serve as a point of depart for further experimental research.
This article is the first to compare various approaches for testing the infochemical effect. The development of a suitable test system will not be easy as there are a multitude of relevant chemicals, a multitude of relevant receptors, and a multitude of relevant reactions, and it must be expected that the effective concentrations are very low. The chemical communication is of utmost importance for the ecosystem and justifies great endeavors to find solutions to these technical problems.
The infochemical effect is a new chapter in ecotoxicology. Will a new endpoint, the so-called infochemical effect, be required in addition to the actual standard test battery of Annex 5 to Commission Directive 92/69/EEC (EC 1992)? Finding the answer to this question is a big challenge that could be met by a comprehensive research project.
When turbidity of the test medium was greater, part of the UV radiation was spent on the absorption and reactions with extra substances on liquid. Humic acids can also coat the bacteria reducing the sensitivity of the cells to UV light. The lower wavelength was distinctly more efficient when the optical power is considered, even though the difference of wavelengths was small. The reason presumably is the greater absorption of DNA causing more efficient bacterial breakage.
UV LEDs were efficient in E. coli destruction, even if LEDs were considered to have rather low optical power. The effect of wavelengths was noticeable but the test medium did not have much impact.
This study found UV LEDs to be an optimal method for bacterial disinfection. The emitted wavelength was found to be an essential factor when using LEDs; thus, care should be taken in selecting the proper LED for maximum disinfection.
The approaches of assessing industrial effluents differing in compositions systematically reflected the ability and applicability of certain effluents in agriculture. The context-specific assessment of effluent offers options to compare effluent from a range of viewpoints and enhances its reasonability of use for growing crops.
Chemical characterization of various industrial effluents first disclosed their potential of reuse. The soil-properties-based compatibility of effluent focused their prospects of use and groundwater-exploitation-status-based portrayed its area of use in a specific region. Assessment of effluent through these enhances reliability and appropriateness of its reuse in agriculture.
Options of industrial effluent (prospective) reuse in agriculture provide ways to combat freshwater crisis without degrading environmental quality. It may be applied for assessing effluent before its reuse in several water-starved countries.
As compared with the Russian standard (San Pin 2.1.980-00), the contents of NO(3) (-) (50.3 +/- 0.1 mg l(-1)) and particulates (2.3 +/- 0.2 mg l(-1)) exceeded the standard levels (0.7 mg l(-1) NO(3) (-) and 45 mg l(-1) particulates); Staroe lake may be slightly contaminated. However, the contamination factor (comparison with the background data) implies that Staroe lake is considerably contaminated. There is a strong possibility that fine overburden detritus (&lt;0.1 mm diameter) may be transported from an open pit to the study lake by natural forces such as wind. Although it is difficult to suppose that one factor dominantly affects the sediment quality, it follows from a factor analysis that factors 1 and 2 account for about 70% of the total variance: Factor 1 is the most dominant, and factor 2 is the second most dominant in the variability of sediment quality. It is considered that Cu, Sr, and Ni in factor 1 originate from anthropogenic sources because they are poor in sediment rocks.
The field survey conducted in Staroe lake can give the following answers to the key objectives: (1) The present water quality is affected by Cu, Ni, Si, and SO(4) (2-) in light of the contamination factor, and these elements originate from anthropogenic sources (the smelter and the open pit) and are transported to the lake through the atmospheric pathway; (2) the sediment profile and statistic analysis show that the lake quality has been influenced by deposition of metals since the 1950s; and (3) Cu, Ni, Sr, and Ca have influenced the sediment quality in light of the most dominant factor-Cu, Ni, and Sr originate from an anthropogenic source, whereas Ca comes from both natural and anthropogenic sources.
The presented lake survey shows that the dispersion of human-related pollutants via the atmospheric pathway takes place in the Arctic region. If the current pollution continues without countermeasures, the high-latitude environment may lose its original characteristics; hence, this subject is important when considering how to implement a wide range of environmental protection measures in the Arctic.
The main likely source of mercury to this estuary is diffuse continental run off, including urban and industrial effluents. Since concentration of mercury in fish tissue is negatively correlated to rainfall, but positively correlated with fish length and weight, it suggests that fish growth in this estuary results in mercury uptake and concentration on the fish tissue. In the dry season of 2005-2006, when rainfall remained below the historic average, fish bioaccumulated significantly more mercury than in the dry season 2006-2007, when rainfall was within the predictable historic average. It is suggested that less rainfall, and consequently less particulate matter and less primary production in the estuary, make mercury more available to the higher levels of the estuarine food chain. In the case of higher rainfall, when river flow increases and water quality in the estuary is reduced, mercury probably is quickly exported associated to the particulate matter to the adjacent coastal waters where it then disperses. This species is a potential routine bioindicator for mercury contamination of the biota, but so far was used only with a limited number of individuals and contexts.
Fish from the Goiana River estuary can still be safely consumed by the local population. However, any further contamination of this resource might lead to total mercury levels above the recommended limits for pregnant women and small children. The proposed heavy dependency of total mercury levels in fish on water quality indicates that land use and water quality standards must be more closely watched in order to guarantee that best possible practices are in place to prevent bioaccumulation of mercury and its transfer along the food chain. Human interventions and climatic events which affect river water flow are also playing a role in the mercury cycle at tropical semi-arid estuaries.
T. lepturus is largely consumed by coastal populations of tropical and sub-tropical countries all over the world. It is also consumed by a number of marine mammals over which we have a strong conservation interest. This species is also a link among different ecosystems along the estuarine ecocline. Therefore, knowledge of its degree of contamination might contribute to public health issues as well as marine conservation actions. Studies on mercury and other contaminants using this species as bioindicator (cosmopolitan, readily available) could help elucidating mechanisms through which pollutants are being transferred not only through the food chain, but also from estuarine-coastal-open waters. In addition, using the same species in marine pollution studies, especially as part of a mosaic of species, allows for wide range comparisons of marine food chain contamination.
The localization of hotspot areas along the coast, the lack of consensus between PCDD/F profiles of sediments and general background, and their weak correlations with organic carbon suggest that PCDD/Fs in the study area largely originate from local/regional emissions. However, due to complicating factors such as sediment dynamics and land upheaval, it is not possible to conclude whether these pollutants derive from recent emissions or from a combination of recent emissions and re-distribution of previous inputs.
The results show that: elevated levels of PCDD/Fs are present in both coastal and offshore areas of the Baltic Sea, the major hotspots are close to the shore, and there are large variations in profiles, indicating that local emissions are (or have been) the major causes of pollution.
In order to identify other hotspot areas and trace sources, comprehensive analysis of PCDD/Fs in surface sediments is needed in all areas of the Baltic Sea that have not been previously investigated. The high levels of PCDD/Fs observed in surface sediments also indicate a need to elucidate whether they are due mainly to current emissions or a combination of recent pollution and re-distribution of historically deposited pollutants. To do so, better understanding of sediment dynamics and present-day inputs, such as riverine inputs, industrial effluents, and leakage from contaminated soil is required. There are indications that contaminated sediments have a regional impact on fish contamination levels. However, as yet there is no statistically robust evidence linking contaminated sediments with elevated levels in Baltic biota. It should also be noted that the Baltic Sea is being massively invaded by the deep-burrowing polychaete Marenzielleria ssp., whose presence in sediments has been shown to increase water concentrations of hydrophobic pollutants. In awareness of this, it is clear that high levels in sediments cannot be ignored in risk assessments. In order to investigate the emission trends more thoroughly, analysis of PCDD/Fs in offshore sediment cores throughout the Baltic Sea is also recommended.
Poaching is the greatest short-term threat to this species, particularly in the southern range where local residents have a strong tradition of hunting. Quite a few individual monkeys are still trapped accidentally due to the high density of traps. These problems are hard to mitigate because it is difficult to enforce laws due to the extremely rugged terrain.
The results show that there is a great ecological capacity of the area for the monkey's survival and a great potential for an expansion of the monkey population at the site. Based on the current population and its geographical range, it can be estimated that the suitable habitat area defined by this study can support more monkeys, about many times the current population. Thus, at least in the Mt. Laojun Area, poaching pressure is the main factor to be responsible for the low density of Yunnan snub-nosed monkeys instead of habitat alteration.
Based on these results, some suggestions relating to conservation can be made: Focus conservation efforts on the current distribution area of the monkeys and create a 20 km buffer zone; design a long-term plan for the suitable habitat outside the buffer zone to set up a wildlife corridor in the long run; establish an association for the local hunters exploiting, their knowledge on the animals to promote monkey conservation and stop poaching. Also, the map derived from the study helps managers to allocate conservation resources more efficiently and enhances the overall outcomes of conservation measures.
Up to now, experimental analyses have mainly focused on studying the many individual processes of gene flow. This can be criticised, as these experiments are normally carried out in widely different environments and with different genotypes, and thus providing bits and pieces difficult to assemble. Only few gene-flow studies have been performed in natural populations and over several plant generations, though this could give a more coherent and holistic view.
The variability inherent in the processes of gene flow in Brassica is apparent and remedies are wished for. One possibility is to expose the study species to additional experiments and monitoring, but this is costly and will likely not cover all possible scenarios. Another remedy is modelling gene flow. Modelling is a valuable tool in identifying key factors in the gene-flow process for which more knowledge is needed, and identifying parameters and processes which are relatively insensitive to change and therefore require less attention in future collections of data. But the interdependence between models and experimental data is extensive, as models depend on experimental data for their development or testing.
More and more transgenic varieties are being grown worldwide harbouring genes that might potentially affect the environment (e.g. drought tolerance, salt tolerance, disease tolerance, pharmaceutical genes). This calls for a thorough risk assessment. However, in Brassica, the limited and uncertain knowledge on gene flow is an obstacle to this. Modelling of gene flow should be optimised, and modelling outputs verified in targeted field studies and at the landscape level. Last but not least, it is important to remember that transgene flow in itself is not necessarily a thread, but it is the consequences of gene flow that may jeopardise the ecosystems and the agricultural production. This emphasises the importance of consequence analysis of genetically modified plants.
Many environmental problems of pollutants remain to be addresses, since new chemical compounds or classes of new compounds are continuously developed and brought to the market and sooner or later "emerge" in the environment. Further issues are the inclusion of transformation products and chemical mixtures in environmental risk assessment, the long-term presence of xenobiotics bound to soils and sediments, as well as an understanding of the ecological relevance of ecotoxicological end points.
We point out the need for a strong academic research and education system in chemicals-related environmental sciences to ministries, politicians, and research funding institutions and we propose to create specific units in the national funding bodies that address basic and interdisciplinary research in this field.
For patients with imatinib-resistant/intolerant GIST, continuous daily sunitinib dosing appears to be an active alternative dosing strategy with acceptable safety.
FTS inhibits Ras activation and prevents preneoplastic liver nodule development by inducing apoptosis in transformed hepatocytes through activation of the Fas/Fas ligand system. FTS might be new molecule for HCC treatment.
The questionnaire has enabled reporting of late toxicity and the responses have enabled refinement of the questionnaire. It is reliable, feasible and has been validated for patient-based collection of CTCAEs late toxicity data.
The HRQOL of patients improves during aggressive treatment for non-metastatic osteosarcoma, except in the domain of nausea. Clinicians can use these findings to prepare their patients for the distressing symptoms that they will likely experience at certain time points and to provide reassurance that these will significantly improve.
At the recommended phase II dose of R(+)XK469, the ratio of C(max)/K(i) is &gt;1. This suggests that coadministration of R(+)XK469 and warfarin results in a clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction due to CYP2C9 inhibition by R(+)XK469.
We conclude that further retrospective testing of these markers is unlikely to add clinically useful results. More definite results may only be expected when these markers are included in the design of prospective randomised studies.
CIMT is found to be a noteworthy treatment for improving the function of the hemiplegic upper extremity in this Turkish patient population.
The review demonstrates a critical lack of studies, let alone RCTs, addressing treatment efficacy for dysarthria in children with ABI. Possible reasons to explain this lack of data include 1) a lack of understanding of the characteristics or natural history of dysarthria associated with this population; 2) the lack of a diagnostic classification system for children precluding the development of well targeted intervention programs; and 3) the heterogeneity of both the etiologies and resultant possible dysarthria types of pediatric ABI. Efforts should first be directed at modest well-controlled studies to identify likely efficacious treatments that may then be trialled in multicentre collaborations using quasi-randomised or RCT methodology.
Significant recovery of motor function occurred in the first 3 and between the 5th and 6th months after stroke. There was alternating improvement and decline in the QoL over the study period, this was however not statistically significant. Only the health item of QoL was associated with improved motor function in this sample. The overall implication is that motor function and QoL did not follow the same pattern during the 6 months follow-up.
Our results show that: a) the glial cells of the holothurian tubular nervous system produce a material similar to Reissner's substance known to be synthesized by secretory glial cells in all chordates studied so far; b) the nervous system of sea cucumbers shows a previously unrealized complexity of glial organization. Our findings also provide significant clues for interpretation of the evolution of the nervous system in the Deuterostomia. It is suggested that echinoderms and chordates might have inherited the RS-producing radial glial cell type from the central nervous system of their common ancestor, i.e., the last common ancestor of all the Deuterostomia.
BoNT-A allowed an improvement in KSC of the affected lower limb and a normalization of KSC of the unaffected limb. This improvement could either be due to a mechanical effect or a central effect of BoNT-A via the spinal central pattern generators (CPGs).
Locomotor kinematics predicts functional gait, and the magnitude of variability and local instability should be calculated to fully evaluate locomotor system health. The observation that different factors associated with functional gait between groups speaks to the uniqueness of the PN-related movement disorder. Functional gait-related rehabilitation programs for PN patients should be tailored toward this uniqueness.
Propulsive shear force generation mechanism under the medial forefoot was impaired in the disorder group. In general, shear loading of the plantar feet shifted laterally. Previously hypothesized higher medio-lateral shear magnitudes under the hallux were not confirmed.
Robotic surgery is gaining acceptance and is rapidly growing as evidenced by an increased number of publications on the topic; these publications demonstrate the safety, efficacy, and improved outcomes compared to open surgery and conventional laparoscopy.
The results of this case series suggest a high antipruritic effect in chronic pruritus by administration of high-dosage, non-sedating antihistamines. These results have to be confirmed in controlled trials. The combination was not more effective than the high dosage monotherapy. The latter one might be preferable due to unknown interactions and addition of side-effects in the combination therapy.
The review was limited by the lack of available data. There is considerable variation in the costs of uncertainty surrounding the different scenarios and populations considered. The validity of these may also be less reliable in the higher-risk groups owing to changes in clinical practice. An adequately powered, well-conducted RCT that directly compares different durations of clopidogrel treatment in patients with NSTE-ACS would ideally be required to provide more robust evidence in relation to the impact of clopidogrel withdrawal.
The results indicate significant clinical utility of these proteolytic enzymes in malignant tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis in breast cancer.
The observation of the study implied that HPV16 had a high prevalence in uterine cervical cancer compared with HPV18 cases. However, the development of invasive cancer from precancerous lesions was more for HPV18 infected cases than for HPV16 during the study period, which indicated the higher oncopotency of HPV type 18.
A positive correlation was found between nursing work experience and their practice alongside BSE medical professionals. Almost all the nurses and midwives knew how to conduct BSE, but did not prioritize practicing it.
When compliance with follow-up is suspect, patients with high grade or T stage (greater than T1) tumor are better treated by inguinal LND during the same hospital admission or within two months of primary treatment.
Mutation of the K-ras gene is one of the commonest genetic changes in the development of human CRC, but it occurs in a rather low frequency in Kashmiri population.
Ovarian cancer was the most frequently occurring gynecologic tumor. Although distribution of age in ovarian cancer was similar to that mentioned in the literature, occurrence of the cancer was more frequent in the premenopausal state.
Prevalence of OS of the jaws was about twice as high as that reported in other studies and presented later than non-gnathic cases. Pain and swelling were common signs and symptoms in this disease. The mixed sub-type was the most common sub-type of gnathic OS.
The calcaneum is an uncommon site for most bone tumors, and in our series, bone cysts were the most common benign lesions. Curettage and bone grafting or the use of bone substitutes can be effectively used in the treatment of symptomatic bone cysts of the calcaneum.
Lens-sparing vitrectomy helps to achieve a favorable anatomical and functional outcome in selected cases of Stage 4 ROP.
While diagnostic and treatment modalities are well in place the final outcome is suboptimal in fungal keratitis. With more effective treatment available for bacterial and Acanthamoeba keratitis, the treatment of fungal keratitis is truly a challenge.
CSM grading for BFP testing is useful for the detection of strabismic amblyopia but not useful to differentiate the depth of the amblyopia.
There was a significant negative psychosocial and emotional impact of childhood strabismus that was not affected by the rural or urban location of the family or the gender of the strabismic child or type of the deviation. The quality-of-life instrument can be used as part of the clinical examination for strabismic children.
Soft contact lens wear did not show any significant change in tear ascorbic acid, TAC and total protein levels compared to controls.
DR was of public health magnitude among our patients. An organized approach is recommended to address DR in the study area.
The study reflects low coverage of Vitamin A supplement.
This study demonstrates the efficacy of the death receptor monoclonal antibody TRA-8 in combination with conventional chemotherapy in an ex vivo human ovarian cancer model. This model can be used to assess cytotoxicity of novel agents in combination with chemotherapy in ovarian cancer.
The data presented suggest a positive association between positive ERCC1 protein expression and clinical resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy.
The importance of complete removal of the fallopian tubes and ovaries and the rigorous systematic pathological examination of these specimens are demonstrated in this case series. It supports emerging evidence that the fimbrial end of the fallopian tube is an important site of genesis of cancer in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers.
Intraperitoneal administration of carboplatin combined with IV paclitaxel was well tolerated and showed satisfactory response in the patients with bulky residual tumor. Large-scale phase III trial comparing with IV carboplatin is warranted in this patient population.
Peritoneal or ovarian PSC is a rare low-grade carcinoma characterized by a more favorable prognosis than classic carcinoma. The place of debulking surgery at the time of initial or recurrent management is important.
Our report provides the largest single-institution experience of brain metastasis from EOC and PPC in patients receiving predominantly platinum and paclitaxel therapy. Patients with BMD from EOC and PPC have a poor prognosis overall; however, prolonged survival is possible in a small subset of patients.
Chronological age by itself should not be a contraindication for the proper surgical treatment of elderly women with endometrioid endometrial cancer, because it is a poor predicting factor for perioperative morbidity and mortality.
The present study suggests that gross assessment may be useful to determine MI of less than 50%, although patients with a G3 tumor were more frequently underestimated.
A uterine malignancy should therefore be included in the differential diagnosis in a young female patient complaining of abnormal genital bleeding.
Hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha affects the proliferation, apoptosis, and migration of UCC SiHa cells in part by regulating the expression of its target genes such as VEGF, HGTD-P, and CXCR4. Targeting HIF-1alpha may be a promising strategy for molecular therapy for UCC.
Nodal status on PET was the major predictor of outcome in locally advanced cervix cancer treated with chemoradiation and was superior to FIGO staging. Tumor volume measured from MRI appears to be an important predictor of loco-regional relapse.
The prevalence of HPV 45 in CC and HSIL in Tongliao area were relatively higher than other regions of China. Comparing the distribution of HPV types in Han Chinese and Mongolian, the prevalence of HPV 18 in CC from Mongolian was significantly higher than that in Han Chinese.
Erlotinib is inactive as monotherapy in patients with recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix.
High-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion based on a Papanicolaou test results at 6- or 12-month follow-up visits was the most powerful end point, either considering cytological end points alone or in comparison to any of the virological end points. Of the virological end points, more than 6-month HR-HPV persistence criteria give the most powerful estimate of a progressive disease.
Combination neoadjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel and cisplatin may improve long-term survival of patients with uterine cervical cancer.
We conclude that up to 25% of patients with loco-regionally restricted gynecologic malignancies present with DTC at the time of diagnosis. For ovarian cancer patients, BM status affected clinical outcome.
Patients submitted to class III NSRH did not present worse QoL and pelvic visceral dysfunctions when compared with class II RH. The RT seems to be a factor impacting negatively on bladder and sexual function.
The risk of intestinal complications in exenterative surgery is moderate and not higher than in surgery for rectal cancer. Clinical appearance and, hence, relevance of anastomotic leakage may be reduced by a temporary diverting stoma.
With the continuous skilled laparoscopic technology, mastering the tips of prevention, and treatment of complications, LRH + LPL will be widely performed in the future.
A rectal invasion should not be an obstacle to reach the aim to obtain a macroscopic minimal residual disease or, if possible, the absence of one. An MPE is useful in those cases to reach optimal cytoreduction, with comparable results whatever the patient's age is. A temporary protective stoma should be considered only exceptionally.
Our data reflect considerable differences about indications and contraindications, preoperative staging, and adjuvant therapy for pelvic exenteration between Germany and the United States.
Ureteric silastic stents are relatively easy to insert and pose few immediate and long-term problems. They should be considered in women after extensive pelvic side-wall debulking in an attempt to reduce the risk of postoperative ureteric complications.
Initiating Vagus nerve stimulation soon after the onset of a seizure may abort or ameliorate seizure symptoms in some patients; unfortunately, a significant number of patients cannot initiate VNS by themselves following the start of a seizure. A system that automatically couples automated detection of seizure onset to initiation of VNS may be helpful for seizure treatment.
When a CHO-electrolyte solution is consumed during a 21-km run, the GI of the preexercise CHO meal makes no difference in running performance.
L-cys administration might ameliorate modulated rat brain enzyme activities induced by free-radical production during forced swimming.
Our data suggest that inadequate post-procedural MSA with increased neointimal hyperplasia may cause the SB ostium to be the most frequent site of restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention on bifurcation lesions.
Rescue PCI, previously shown to be superior in the short term to both repeat thrombolysis and conservative therapy, maintains benefit in terms of long-term mortality. This strategy for failed lysis should be mandated as part of thrombolytic-based ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction protocols.
The peak levels of CD14(+)CD16(-) monocytes affect both the extent of myocardial salvage and the recovery of left ventricular function after AMI, indicating that the manipulation of monocyte heterogeneity could be a novel therapeutic target for salvaging ischemic damage.
Abnormal, giant T-U waves separate TdP initiation in LQTS patients from PVCs in other heart disease and from other PVCs in LQTS patients. These ECG analyses suggest that early afterdepolarizations initiate TdP and, if present, may help to identify an imminent risk for TdP.
Perfusion findings in (13)N-ammonia PET and CFR are strong outcome predictors. CFR allows further risk stratification, suggesting a "warranty" period of 3 years if normal CFR is associated with normal perfusion. Conversely, in patients with abnormal perfusion, an impaired CFR has added value for predicting adverse outcomes.
Patients undergoing transplantation for CHD have a good late survival if they survive the early post-operative period. Risk factors for reduced survival are older age at transplant and a previous Fontan operation.
Compared with ICM patients with SMVT, an otherwise similar control group demonstrated markedly smaller endocardial low-voltage zones, lower scar-related electrogram density, and fewer conducting channels with faster conduction velocity. These findings may explain why some ICM patients develop SMVT and others do not.
Thus, apigenin represents a promising chemotherapeutic agent, which may be used in combination with immunotherapy for the treatment of advanced stage cancers. The clinical implications of the current strategy are discussed.
Chromosome fidelity in progeny from parents with reduced mars and/or tlk activity was impaired. The results from cytological studies revealed that mars and tlk function in parallel and that a balance between mars activity and tlk activity is required for cells to progress through mitosis correctly, thus ensuring chromosome fidelity.
A minority of Cochrane reviews include "unpublished trials" and many of these are eventually published. Truly unpublished studies have poor or unclear methodological quality. Therefore, it may be better to invest in regular updating of reviews, rather than in extensive searching for unpublished data.
Citations were biased toward trials with positive results and toward trials published in high-impact-factor journals.
Meta-analyses are likely to be updated until a clear conclusion is reached. Therefore, it is important to take the inflation of the error rate into account to interpret the results correctly.
There is an immediate need for methodological work in the area of prognosis systematic reviews. Because of methodological shortcomings in the primary and review literature, there remains uncertainty about reliability of conclusions regarding prognostic factors for low back pain.
After adjusting for possible differences across studies, we did not find clear evidence that any topical fluoride modality is more effective than any other. Multiple-treatments meta-analysis methods allow for more detailed investigations than nave methods in the analysis of indirect evidence on treatment effects.
The prototype OA-DISABILITY-CAT demonstrated promising measurement properties compared with the HAQ-II, and is recommended for use in LE osteoarthritis research.
Our expressions for uncertainty in NNT(t) and MERT inform the confidence one has in initiating a clinical intervention. In our example, a recommendation for treatment could be made for groups of patients whose risk exceeded the range of uncertainty in MERT. However, for lower-risk patients, a recommendation for or against treatment could not be made, mainly because of the limited data on AERs. Our methods can also be used to estimate how much additional data would be required to provide a firmer recommendation for such patient groups.
Categorization of continuous variables resulted in a different content and poorer performance of the final model.
Conclusions about 24-hour dietary recalls by fourth-grade children observed eating school meals in validation studies are generalizable to 24-hour dietary recalls by comparable but unobserved children in nonvalidation studies.
When RD is estimated from relative association measures that are nonsignificant and this counterintuitive situation occurs, it may be more appropriate to pool RD across studies. Pooling is particularly valid when baseline risks across studies are homogeneous.
Most of the methods try to impute, adjust, or construct a reference standard. In situations that deviate only marginally from the classical diagnostic accuracy paradigm, these are valuable methods. In cases where an acceptable reference standard does not exist, the concept of clinical test validation may provide an alternative paradigm to evaluate a diagnostic test.
Based on the presented objective and indirect evidence, required author contribution forms were not associated with a decrease in author counts.
Results provide initial report of the validity and reliability of the CS of the DUI.
These preliminary findings suggest that attachment theory, and insecure and anxious-ambivalent attachment in particular, may be a useful framework from which to study the origins, clinical correlates, and treatment of atypical depression. Gender may be an important consideration when considering atypical depression from an attachment perspective.
Novel methodologies are needed to assess the utility of acupuncture as adjunctive treatment of mood episodes associated with bipolar disorder. We observed similar benefits associated with "placebo" acupuncture experiences and active treatment. Further studies are warranted. TRIAL REGISTRATION (STUDY II): (ClinicalTrials.gov) Identifier: NCT00071669.
Processing speed plays an outstanding role in the relationship between neurocognitive symptoms and self-care, vocational outcome, and social functioning. Our data support the possibility of processing speed as the best longitudinal predictor of the level of autonomy in patients with chronic schizophrenia.
Our preliminary findings suggest that anxiety disorders are associated with increased rates of cataplexy. Future research is indicated to elucidate the relationship between anxiety and narcolepsy, with a particular focus on panic and generalized anxiety disorders.
Our work does not sufficiently support the long-term effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotics in the augmentation of SSRIs for treatment-resistant OCD patients. Even though this approach seems useful for some types of OCD patients, such as those with symmetry/ordering and hoarding symptoms, these data emphasize the limitations of the current pharmacotherapeutic options in treatment-refractory OCD, and their chronic use raises a number of safety concerns.
Antipsychotic medications were commonly used in the treatment of MDD prior to FDA approval, especially in the presence of comorbid mental illness and longer term MDD. Further research is needed to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of these medications in combination with antidepressants.
Fragile X-associated psychiatric manifestations serve as a useful model for a molecular genesis of neuropsychiatric illness. Because of the multigenerational expression of fragile X-associated neuropsychiatric illness, there is a prominent role for genetic testing and genetic counseling of patients and their relatives. Genetic testing is confirmatory of the FMR1 premutation and is an essential component of the clinical evaluation. Psychopharmacologic and psychotherapeutic treatment of fragile X-associated psychiatric illnesses may improve patient function and assist in adaptation to the burden of a genetic neuropsychiatric illness.
The use of citalopram was associated with greatly reduced irritability without sedation in a group of behaviorally disturbed patients with AD.
The results of this study suggest that the novel psychotropic agent lurasidone is a safe and effective treatment for patients with an acute exacerbation of schizophrenia.
Our findings do not support a biologically mediated effect of exercise on symptom severity in depressed patients, but they do support a beneficial effect of strength training on work capacity.
These results illustrate the combined use of genetic markers to predict enhanced response to iloperidone and support the application of pharmacogenetics to differentiate medication options and improve individualized treatments for schizophrenia.
Low self-directedness, depressive symptoms at baseline, and history of previous mood disorders may predict induced depression by PegIFN and RBV in euthymic HCV patients.
The findings of this study suggest that PTSD is not a monolithic disorder, as symptom clusters differ in several important aspects. Also, the course and severity of symptoms differ between clinical and nonclinical groups. Finally, practitioners are encouraged to focus on the identification and treatment of early hyperarousal due to its prominent role in the development of other PTSD symptoms.
Sustained and comparable improvements in symptoms were seen with up to 55 weeks of ziprasidone treatment for patients initially treated for bipolar mania, regardless of whether the baseline episode was manic or mixed or involved psychotic symptoms.
This study is the first to estimate risk for suicides following celebrity suicides across 3 Asian regions. The results provide important information for public health policy makers in assessing the elevated risk associated with excessive media coverage of celebrity suicide and developing timely evidence-based interventions.
The current results do not support the notion that lithium treatment may lead to reduced hyperphosphorylation of tau protein after a short 10-week treatment in the Alzheimer's disease target population.
Both the PT and the MT significantly reduced pre-existing gingival recession after six months of brushing. This may have been due to improved brushing technique (i.e., Hawthorne effect).
Based on these six-month data, concern that power tooth brushing results in a higher risk for gingival recession is not warranted.
Although the dentin SBS of Fuji II LC after conditioning with APF and phosphoric acid followed by NaOCl was greater than the unconditioned group (Group 4), polyacrylic acid yielded the best result.
Proper conditioning of dentin is effective in promoting close adaptation of RMGIC to dentin.
Within the limits of this study increasing the etching time or combining both etching techniques failed to improve the BS using SEP or etch-and-rinse systems.
Based on the findings of this study, there is no clinical justification for increasing the etching time or for combining the use of a SEP following the use of a 35% H3PO4 etchant to achieve a greater BS to ground enamel.
Carbon steel round burs remove caries lesions more efficiently than polymer burs but they tend to contribute to the over-preparation of the cavity. Polyamide burs were found to be self-limiting and lose their cutting efficiency on reaching affected dentin and do not cut sound dentin. The time required for caries removal using the polymer bur was significantly longer than when using a carbon steel round bur.
One of the goals of conservative dentistry is to develop a method for removing caries-infected dentin while preserving caries-unaffected dentin. The use of polymer burs appears to offer a straightforward and efficient means for achieving this goal and conserving healthy tooth structure.
The potential exists for bone healing and remodeling in fresh extraction socket defects associated with immediately placed implants.
Im implantation offers the advantages of reduced operating time and the preservation of alveolar bone volume.
The clinician should consider introducing a non-tapered instrument to working length after coronal flaring because determination of the initial narrow apical canal diameter plays a major factor in identifying the extent of final apical shaping. Because the first non-tapered instrument that binds the apical constriction is larger than the corresponding tapered instrument, it better reflects the actual narrow apical diameter of the canal.
The initiation of canal instrumentation with a K-file size three sizes beyond the mean values of the FLSB will result in greater final enlargement of the canal compared to starting with the FKFB. This increased canal enlargement facilitates improved mechanical and chemical cleansing of the root canal ensuring removal of more microorganisms and their substrates, thus, improving the outcome of the treatment.
The prevalence of dental caries did not differ between the PLBW and NBW children.
Enamel hypoplasia and snacking were not common in PLBW children which may account for the lack of difference in dental caries between the two groups.
There is a need to create awareness among dental practitioners regarding the increased caries risk of asthmatic patients. CLINICIAL SIGNIFICANCE: Special preventive and educational measures will be required to prevent caries and other oral diseases in asthmatic patients.
The present study illustrates a significant association of anomalous maxillary lateral, anomalous mandibular canine, taurodontism, infra occlusion of premolar, over retained deciduous molar, and maxillary canine transmigration with ectopically placed canines. These associations suggest these conditions may share a common genetic origin and existence of these anomalies can anticipate maxillary canine impaction which can help in cautious observation and early treatment for maxillary canine impaction.
Anomalous lateral incisors can serve as a predictor for palatal maxillary canine impaction. These anomalies could serve as an easily recognized, early warning sign for the monitoring of the canine position and timely early referral in appropriate cases.
Most mothers in the study reported signs and symptoms adduced to teething in their children irrespective of their beliefs. Fever ranked highest of the signs and symptoms reported. Mothers of children from the high socioeconomic class reported fewer teething symptoms. Breastfeeding status and gender of the child had no effect on teething problems in the children studied.
Most signs and symptoms adduced to teething by parents may actually be due to underlying infections. Thus, there is a need to rule out occult infection during the tooth eruption period.
Radiation caries is an aggressive side effect of RT. Dentists play an important role in the prevention of the condition via comprehensive oral healthcare before, during, and after the active cancer therapy.
Dentists should understand the clinical and biological aspects underlying radiation caries to prevent the development of lesions and provide optimal treatment when needed.
The scientific community understands the need for more investigations to completely understand the conditions that would best favor the creation of a tooth substitute. Recent gains in the understanding of the molecular regulation of tooth morphogenesis, stem cell biology, and biotechnology offers the opportunity to realize this goal.
These findings, combined with the recent progress in stem cell research and tissue engineering, might allow the development of alternatives for current materials and therapies used to treat tooth tissue loss (e.g., enamel, dentin, pulp), reconstruct dentoalveolar and craniofacial bone defects, and eventually replace an entire tooth.
Facts about the effects of smoking on the major oral diseases are stated and supported by national statistics. The barriers for compliance by dental professionals are described based on published research, but even more importantly, possible solutions are offered.
Awareness of the harmful effects of smoking tobacco can help dental professionals become more motivated to comply with current recommendations for smoking cessation in order to improve the oral and general health of the public.
FRC restorations using adhesive technology appears to be a promising restorative option. However, further clinical investigation will be required to provide additional information on this technique. Based on the clinical and radiographic findings in the present case, the fabrication of a conventional crown was avoided in order to conserve the remaining tooth structure.
The restoration of badly damaged teeth is a challenge for clinicians when cast crown restorations are not an option for the patient. The use of FRC restorations along with adhesive technology may be a rational restorative alternative in the near future.
PDCD4 expression is inversely correlated to the metastatic potential of HCC cells. PDCD4 can effectively suppress the metastatic potential of HCC cells.
dCK mRNA expression is a candidate indicator for GEM efficacy in unresectable pancreatic cancer. Quantitative mRNA measurements of dCK using EUS-FNA samples are necessary for definitive conclusions.
Grievance or legal action is unusual in the daily practice of doctors, but in today's medico-legal domain they face a continuous possible threat. The threat of, or real, legal process can cause psychological, corporeal and behavioral practice changes.
This is the first randomized trial evaluating video alone as an educational tool in laparoscopic training. It demonstrates that video is superior to text in achieving superior conceptual understanding, without improving operative times. Understanding through video instruction cannot make up for a lack of technical ability in novice surgeons.
Over a relatively short time using the da Vinci surgical system, we observed a substantial change in our surgical activity. For endometrial cancer, open surgical procedures decreased from 78% to 35%. Moreover, our preliminary data confirm that surgical robotic staging for early-stage endometrial cancer is feasible and safe. Age, obesity, and previous surgery do not seem to be contraindications.
Particulate matter generated during hysteroscopic electrosurgical vaporization using monopolar and bipolar instruments is heterodisperse and complex in shape. Monopolar vaporization results in particles of a smaller median diameter compared with bipolar vaporization. Both instruments generate 2 distinct populations of particles by surface area. The distribution of particles by volume during hysteroscopic electrosurgery is complex.
The SPA-LAVH was safe and effective, and the procedure could be learned over a short period of time. Additional experience and continued investigation are warranted.
Laparoscopic myomectomy is a suitable alternative to MLPT in women with 1 to 3 myomas. However, preoperative careful evaluation of the size and sites of the myomas is necessary to avert conversion and prevent complications.
Hysteroscopic removal of conceptive tissues implanted in a cesarean section scar seems to be a feasible and safe procedure that might be considered as a treatment option.
HyCoSy with SonoVue and CnTi is a low acoustic pressure technique in which bubbles are not immediately destroyed and can be detected for several minutes. This enables the signal sent to the equipment to be filtered from the echoes emanating from other tissues. Therefore, excluding the fundamental image, the bubbles are clearly observed, with no visualization of pelvic tissues and organs. This allows easier evaluation of tubal patency, provides a more accurate assessment of tubal occlusion, and enables better visualization of the tubal course.
Evaluation of trocar insertion sites may be difficult and remains a challenge for peritoneal endosurgical access. We have shown that absence of the "sliding viscera" sign is more likely to be linked to subumbilical adhesions and represents a quick method for preoperative assessment. The UTP may also be a useful measurement, which requires further validation.
The results of this study suggest that patients with a previous hysteroscopic metroplasty for septate uterus are at increased risk for fetal malpresentation at term, low birth weight infants, and delivery by caesarean section and should therefore be informed of these risks before delivery.
Our study findings suggest that endometrial polyps are common in women aged 45 to 50 years and that women with such polyps experience heavier periodic bleeding. Although some polyps seem to regress spontaneously during 1-year follow-up, most seem to persist.
Surgery to treat bowel endometriosis can be safely and efficiently performed by the gynecologic pelvic surgeon. Meticulous training and a multidisciplinary approach to comprehensive operative care are necessary. These findings can be validated by prospective collaborative studies and reports from other surgeons.
In properly assessed and selected obese, premenopausal women with AUB receiving warfarin therapy and at high risk for traditional therapies, the LNG-IUS was an effective treatment in 70% of patients.
Current research on posterior glenohumeral instability is limited, due to the relatively rare diagnosis and infrequent need for surgical intervention. Providing a structured physical therapy program following this surgical procedure appeared to have assisted in a return to full functional activities and sports.
The fear-avoidance model of musculoskeletal pain suggests that elevated pain-related fear is a precursor to chronic low back pain. Recent prospective studies support the predictive validity of this model, and treatment approaches based on the model have also been reported in the literature. Graded exercise/activity is one treatment approach that has been well described in the literature, with reports describing physical-therapy-specific application. Graded exposure is another intervention with the potential to reduce pain-related fear, yet physical-therapy-specific application of graded exposure has not been widely described in the literature. The purpose of this clinical commentary was to provide information on the theoretical aspects of graded exposure, to briefly review available evidence for graded exposure, and to describe physical therapy application of graded exposure for 2 patients enrolled in a physical therapy clinical trial.
IACFM-accelerated ligament healing, possibly via favorable effects on collagen formation and organization, but had minimal effect on the final outcome of healing. These findings are clinically interesting, as there are few established interventions for ligament injuries, and IACFM is a simple and practical therapy technique. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2009;39(7):506-514, Epub 24 February 2009. doi:10.2519/jospt.2009.2997.
This case demonstrates the importance of continual medical screening for physical therapists throughout the patient management cycle. It further demonstrates the importance of immediate referral to surgical specialists when CES is suspected, as rapid intervention offers the best prognosis for recovery.
The best exercise for the gluteus medius was side-lying hip abduction, while the single-limb squat and single-limb deadlift exercises led to the greatest activation of the gluteus maximus. These results provide information to the clinician about relative activation of the gluteal muscles during specific therapeutic exercises that can influence exercise progression and prescription. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2009;39(7):532-540, Epub 24 February 2009. doi:10.2519/jospt.2009.2796.
Patients with acute WAD receiving an application of Kinesio Taping, applied with proper tension, exhibited statistically significant improvements immediately following application of the Kinesio Tape and at a 24-hour follow-up. However, the improvements in pain and cervical range of motion were small and may not be clinically meaningful. Future studies should investigate if Kinesio Taping provides enhanced outcomes when added to physical therapy interventions with proven efficacy or when applied over a longer period.
Symptomatic improvement in patients with midfoot arthritis treated with a FL insert was accompanied by reduced magnitude and duration of loading under the medial midfoot. These preliminary outcomes suggest that the FL insert may be a viable alternative in the conservative management of patients with midfoot arthritis.
Many pediatric surgeons receive both financial and in-kind subsidies. Although they cover a wide breadth of surgical conditions, many limit the conditions that they treat to reduce call responsibilities. The workforce shortage in pediatric surgery creates call coverage problems that may affect up to 8% of US practices.
Despite apparently well-inflated lungs after surgery, evidence of early and significantly reduced weight gain and impaired lung function in CHD patients should prompt careful dietary monitoring and regular lung function testing.
Our model identifies a group of pre-surgical and postsurgical parameters that predict survival rate in patients with CDH on ECMO support. This model was derived from the retrospective data from a large database and will need to be prospectively tested.
Children with pneumomediastinum from blunt trauma often receive invasive and expensive testing with low yield, especially those with isolated thoracic trauma.
Vascular anomalies with/without tracheoesophageal compression present symptomatically in a variety of ways, and noninvasive methods are used to identify the specific lesion and associated cardiac defects. Surgical repair is associated with low or no mortality in patients with uncomplicated complex of vascular anomalies.
The ribs and costal cartilages on the right side with severer depression were significantly shorter or not different than those on the contralateral side. Based on these findings, the theory of costal cartilage overgrowth is contradictory. The etiology of asymmetric chest deformity should be reevaluated.
In this study, liver nodules occurred in 18% of cases after PSSS for EHPVO in children and not after PRP. As many children have undergone PSSS throughout the world, the presence of liver nodules should be considered during the follow-up of those patients.
The present study shows the following:
Both dilatation and myotomy are effective immediate treatment of achalasia. A clear transition to and preference for laparoscopic approach has occurred in the treatment of achalasia in children.
Our study indicates that after a high level of medical intervention perinatally, quality of life is good to very good in both groups and comparable to healthy young adults.
Preterm delivery should be avoided because there is no clear benefit to the gut in avoiding derivative injuries. Meticulous attention should be given to the nutritional needs of patients with gastroschisis.
These results suggest that ROS are generated during the laparoscopic procedure, possibly as a result of an ischemia-reperfusion phenomenon induced by the inflation and deflation of the pneumoperitoneum, which causes oxidative stress and consume plasma antioxidants.
1. The technique of ultrasound-guided percutaneous insertion of Hickman line to the internal jugular vein is safe and is applicable to all children regardless of size, age, or diagnosis. 2. Pediatric surgeons and anesthetists can learn this technique without specific training in interventional radiology. 3. A learning curve does exist, and we recommend concentrating pediatric vascular access procedures to a specialist team.
We found HD access in children and adolescents was reliably established through use of a PRA-AVF when an RC-AVF was not feasible. Access sites were often possible through the upper arm cephalic veins and/or with retrograde flow into the forearm. Cumulative (secondary) patency was 100% at 24 months.
The CA survivors show impaired growth and psychomotor developmental delay up to age 2 years. This warrants specific follow-up programs and infrastructure for these patients.
These data confirm reports in literature regarding child preparation before medical intervention and reinforces the importance of specialized presurgery planning procedures by the proper professional interfaced with the surgical colleagues, all aiming toward the best recovery for the children.
The incidence of HD is increased in patients with HLHS. These results point to a common neural crest-derived embryologic origin of HD and HLHS and warrant further studies.
Postoperative EC is associated with retained proximal HYP, which suggests that HYP could be, at minimum, a predictive marker for this complication. Complete resection of HYP segment could potentially minimize the incidence of postoperative EC and alleviate the severity of EC.
Fetal extraperitoneal perforation is extremely rare, but the clinical features are easily recognizable, and when appropriate therapy is instituted, the outcome is likely to be good with normal anorectal function to be expected in the long-term. The exact cause of the condition is unknown.
Straight ileoanal anastomosis and JPAA are associated with considerable morbidity; SIAA has higher stool frequency and JPAA has increased pouchitis. Over time, we found that problems improved, and functional stooling scores became similar. JPAA had consistently lower stool frequency and better continence rates; however, these differences were small and may have minimal clinical significance. In addition, such differences need to be balanced against the high rate of pouchitis with JPAA. Continence was excellent regardless of the technique.
There is no difference in cosmetic outcome between skin adhesive and suture closure in pediatric inguinal herniorrhaphy. Material costs are increased because of the high cost of adhesive relative to suture. This is partially offset, however, by the cost savings from reduction in operating room time.
Fourth arch anomalies are more common than once thought. Treatment of these disorders with repeated incision and drainage yields high rates of recurrence; thus, complete excision of the entire fistula tract during a quiescent period appears preferable. Combining this surgery with partial thyroidectomy may further decrease recurrence rates. Complications can likely be minimized by using antibiotic treatment of acute infections or endoscopic cauterization in children 8 years or younger, and delaying open neck surgery.
Ultrasonography with color Doppler is the best choice for diagnosis of torsion of WS. Computed tomography is a good complementary examination, but it needs to submit young patients to a general anesthesia and delays an emergency situation.
Total-etch and self-etch adhesives have a significant effect on IDS. IDS resulted in high bond strengths for both adhesives; however, the microleakage was similar to that obtained with CCT. (J Prosthet Dent 2009;102:1-9).
Resection of the embryologically defined uterovaginal compartment seems to be pivotal for pelvic control in patients with cervical cancer. TMMR without adjuvant radiation has great potential to improve the effectiveness of surgical treatment of early-stage cervical cancer.
The 59-gene expression signature is an accurate predictor of outcome in patients with neuroblastoma. The signature is an independent risk predictor, identifying patients with an increased risk of poor outcome in the current clinical-risk groups. The method and signature is suitable for routine laboratory testing, and should be evaluated in prospective studies.
LBC combined with HPV testing resulted in a significantly lower detection rate of CIN3+ in the second round of screening compared with LBC screening alone, but the effect was small. Over the two screening rounds combined, co-testing did not detect a higher rate of CIN3+ or CIN2+ than LBC alone. Potential changes in screening methodology should be assessed over at least two screening rounds.
Bariatric surgery was associated with reduced cancer incidence in obese women but not in obese men.
Although dietary w3 FAs were insufficient in an unselected cohort of mothers of premature infants, breastfeeding resulted in increased levels of DHA in the premature infants at the expense of the mothers, suggesting a general need to increase dietary w3 FAs during pregnancy and lactation.
Urban-rural area differences were observed in some allelic families (MAD20, FC27, 3D7), suggesting a probable impact of urbanization on genetic variability of P. falciparum. This should be taken into account in the implementation of malaria control measures.
Patients who underwent surgery for a femoral fracture secondary to a metastatic disease showed an improvement in the quality of life, according to the Karnofsky scale. Although they represent a group of patients with a short survival, the control of pain and functional improvement justifiy the procedure.
Big endothelin-1 predicts cardiovascular mortality in patients diagnosed of HF and moderately symptomatic functional class.
The rates of B-CLL are higher in our population than previously described, which is probably caused by an earlier diagnosis. Our results indicate that the MDACC prognostic index predicted the overall survival and the prognosis of a random population of patients better than the classical staging systems. The simplicity and utility of this prognostic index may help clinicians in clinical decision and therapeutical management.
An age above 65 years is an independent predictor of mortality following the development of an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis in cirrhotic patients.
Terminological and contextual challenges for international readers are common features of the research publications surveyed. In order that the findings of education research may be more widely disseminated and understood, it is important that authors, referees and editors pay attention to the comprehensibility of the language they use in articles selected for publication.
The bench models and scoring schemes developed in Toronto, Canada were directly applicable in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. This approach may prove a feasible, safe and cost-effective method for training a multitude of health care professionals in technical skills and may help to address the human resources deficit in Africa.
Mistreatment during residency is a universal phenomenon. Deliberation on the occurrence of this universally wrong tradition in medical culture will lead to the establishment of strong preventive methods against it. Current results indicate that alcohol-associated harassment during residency is a Japanese culture-specific problem and effective preventive measures against this are also urgently required.
Mixed methods may prove superior in increasing the integrity and applicability of findings when studying new or complex initiatives and interactions in medical education research. They deserve an increased presence and recognition in medical education research.
The identity and organisational issues related to the pressure towards independence were explored through the lenses of established theories from education and psychology. Consideration of Lave and Wenger's situated learning theory suggests that giving attention to the 'independent doctor' ideal, through measures such as involving trainees when their supervisors ask for help, could impact the safety of teaching team practice. Amalberti et al.'s migration model explains how pressures to maximise productivity and individual gain may cause teaching teams to migrate beyond the boundaries of safe practice and suggests that managing triggers (such as workload and high-stakes evaluations) for violations of safe practice might improve safety. Implementation and evaluation of these theory-based approaches to the safety of teaching team practice would contribute to a better understanding of the links between trainee independence and patient safety.
Novices learned and retained the skill of endotracheal intubation better with experiential learning. This study suggests that experiential learning should be adopted for the teaching of endotracheal intubation and that refresher tuition at 3-monthly intervals will prevent the decay of this skill in infrequent users.
The study found little evidence that students trained with a high-fidelity simulator were more able to transfer skills to real patients than a control group. Although there was some suggestion that the Harvey-trained group was better at recognising heart sounds, there was no difference between groups in diagnostic accuracy or clinical skills.
Contrary to findings in other studies, in which initial idealism has been reported to have collapsed after working with students from other professions, we achieved a positive reaction to the O&amp;G attachment, harnessing students' initial positivity towards interprofessional learning and cementing it into real optimism. Our promising initial results suggest that more work is needed to further increase the impact of such strategies and to determine whether the improvements in attitudes translate to improved clinical behaviour and thence patient outcomes.
The results suggest that the time spent on activities involving direct patient contact is positively related to students' perceptions of the quality of their learning environment. None of the activities were significantly negatively related to the students' perceptions of their clinical learning environment. Future research should examine the optimal time allocations required to enhance the perceived quality of the clinical learning environment.
Trainees relied on workarounds as simplified routines, demonstrating routine expertise. Staff members, demonstrating adaptive expertise, used workarounds as part of a broader network of people and communication tools. Explicit training regarding this network and the ways in which workarounds conceal this network may help trainees develop adaptive expertise.
Standardised observers can reliably assess the communication skills of medical students during clinical encounters with patients and are well accepted by students.
Because the simulated consultation takes place in an institutional setting, the SP may have institutional power over the student. This may explain how findings from these role-play interactions differ from actual doctor-patient consultations. This suggests that simulated consultations are educational devices rather than exact representations of doctor-patient interactions. The authors hope this paper will contribute to a discussion about the nature of role-play in medical education.
The differential impact on knowledge acquisition of conventional and innovative curricula has seldom been studied in a longitudinal and cross-sectional design. This study confirmed our assumptions about the potential of an integrated contextual curriculum. The differences observed in ICMC students were attributed to the stronger emphasis on clinically relevant basic sciences in the early years of the ICMC and to the stronger integration of basic and clinical sciences in the ICMC.
These results show a low toxicity of BP both in vitro and in vivo.
The use of experimental models of TBI is the most appropriate tool to study the mechanisms underlying this type of injury. However their simplicity precludes an exact reproduction of the heterogeneous cerebral damage observed in clinical settings. This could be the main reason for the discrepancies observed in the therapeutic effects of treatments between experimental and clinical studies.
AK 295 inhibited apoptosis via calpaindependent pathways and provided neuroprotection and improved neurologic function in a rat model of SCI. To our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate the use of AK 295, a calpain inhibitor, after SCI. Our data suggest that AK 295 might be a novel therapeutic compound for the neuroprotection of tissue and the recovery of function in patients with a SCI.
1) Bioabsorbable fixation systems provide excellent stability during the bone "healing" period, without a higher complication rate than with other systems. 2) They help the bone grafts keep their remodeled shape. 3) They promote reossification by preventing the bone grafts from moving after osteosynthesis. 4) No interference with normal growth of the cranial vault has been observed.
Taken together, these results suggest that ErbB4 processing and function may be altered in brain tumours, such as MB and PA, via differential expression of JM transcript variants.
The present study revealed significant interrelationships of the investigated molecular alterations and clinicopathological characteristics in diffuse gliomas of World Health Organization grades II and III, which support a promising role of molecular markers in the diagnostic assessment of these neoplasms.
The presence of phosphorylated Cav-1 in endothelium of vessels showing BBB breakdown suggests that phosphorylated Cav-1 signalling may be one of the factors associated with early BBB breakdown and brain oedema in brain injury.
More extensive information of the public concerning the different therapeutic possibilities is needed. Further the importance of considering subjective connotations in situations of referral and indication is discussed. Specific attention has been given to the situation of prospective psychotherapists.
Our results with PE for depressive patients are encouraging, but the inclusion of appropriate control groups needs to be considered in forthcoming studies. Future research should also focus on comparison studies of PE in depressive patients with PE in schizophrenic patients, particularly as PE has proven to be an effective treatment in schizophrenia.
This stands in disagreement with the previous assumption of complete obliteration at the time of birth. This discrepancy may be explained by the fact that our present findings are based on modern MRI techniques with much higher resolution than 10 or 20 years ago. Another possible explanation for the discrepancy between studies based on MRI and histopathology might relate to postmortem resorption of cerebrospinal fluid from OBVs. Especially with a long postmortem interval OBVs may collapse and may no longer appear as an open cavity.
Although very rare, perforating artery aneurysms should be considered in young or middle-aged patients with an atypical intracerebral hematoma. This report discusses radiological and surgical characteristics of this unusual aneurysm.
We propose that venous hypertension from the dural arteriovenous fistula in combination with a valsalva maneuver caused ischemia in the right parietal lobe, eliciting a deficit in attention.
The histology, confirmation of radioactivity of the material obtained from within the tumor, and latency period of presentation provide compelling support for tumor induction by the Thorotrast. Primary lesions of the central nervous system associated with Thorotrast are very rarely reported, despite its extensive use in cerebral angiography and management of brain abscess between 1930 and 1960.
Pathologies of the hypoglossal nerve as such are very rare within the clinical landscape. When a tumor occurs, its shape and location must be analyzed to establish whether, or by which approach, surgical removal is feasible. Although very unusual, the mere extracranial occurrence of a hypoglossal neurinoma at the cranial base should be considered a differential diagnosis.
Endoscopic intraventricular biopsy can be considered as a less invasive alternative to craniotomy in patients with infundibular lesions protruding superiorly into the third ventricle.
In patients with presumed idiopathic syringomyelia, imaging studies should be closely inspected for the presence of a transverse arachnoid web. Surgical resection of a transverse thoracic arachnoid web with syringomyelia can result in resolution of the syringomyelia and improvement in neurological function. Syrinx formation in patients with these webs may occur in the area of the spinal cord where there is lower cerebrospinal fluid pressure, which may be either rostral or caudal to the arachnoid web. We evaluate this hypothesis by comparing our case with other published cases.
Surgery is a safe and effective treatment for seizures associated with CCMs.
The lateral supraorbital approach can be used safely for olfactory groove meningiomas of all sizes with no mortality and relatively low morbidity. Surgical results and tumor recurrence with this fast and simple approach are similar to those obtained with more extensive, complex, and time-consuming approaches.
Transsphenoidal decompression is a safe and effective treatment to improve cranial nerve and endocrine dysfunction in patients with symptomatic CS meningiomas. The less severe optomotoric nerve palsy before surgery, the better the chance of complete recovery of its function. Combined with adjuvant radiotherapy, this minimally invasive management also provided excellent long-term tumor control.
The PoleStar N20 low-field iMRI navigation system is a promising tool for safe, minimally invasive, endonasal, transsphenoidal pituitary macroadenomas resection. It enables neurosurgeons to control the extent of tumor resection, particularly for suprasellar tumors, ensuring surgical accuracy and safety, and leading to a decreased likelihood of repeat surgeries. However, this technology is still not satisfying in estimating the amount of the parasellar residual tumor invading into cavernous sinus, given the false or uncertain images generated by low-field iMRI in this region, which are difficult to discriminate between tumor remnant and blood within the venous sinus.
Intraoperative evidence of arachnoid infiltration or CSFCM dissemination in patients with posterior fossa brain tumors occurs at a variable frequency that is dependent on tumor type, correlates with conventional M stage, and may be predictive of outcome.
Stereotactic radiosurgery is safe and effective in the treatment of hemangioblastomas and is an attractive alternative to surgery for patients, including those with von Hippel-Lindau disease.
Despite having started with significantly greater back pain and disability and worse health status, surgically treated patients had significantly less back pain and disability and improved health status compared with nonoperatively treated patients at the time of the 2-year follow-up evaluation. Compared with nonoperative treatment, surgery can offer significant improvement of back pain for adults with scoliosis.
In this study, 19 cases of intracanalicular disc herniations at the upper lumbar levels, including the thoracolumbar junction, were successfully excised with the oblique paraspinal approach without recurrence or instability. We found that the oblique paraspinal approach, which resulted in satisfactory clinical outcomes with few complications, could be one of the main surgical procedures used to treat intracanalicular disc herniations at the upper lumbar levels.
Data indicate that, in our experience, on midterm follow-up, microendoscopic laminectomy decompression is an effective technique for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis.
This is the first study focusing on interspinous distractor complications and the anatomic features of the SP and interspinous areas of the patients, which could potentially be the underlying causes for those complications. The X-Stop can be an effective treatment option, but it is not a panacea for all patients with degenerative lumbar spine conditions. Not only do the clinical indications deserve attention, but also, and most importantly, the patient's anatomic characteristics.
The interactive visualization method data corresponded well with surgical findings (surgical field, offending vessels, and nerves). Virtual reality 3-dimensional computer graphics using fusion magnetic resonance angiography and fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition may be helpful for preoperative simulation.
HFS can result from tumor, vascular malformation, and dolichoectatic artery. Therefore, appropriate preoperative radiological investigations are crucial to achieve a correct diagnosis. The authors emphasize that distal compression or only venous compression can be responsible for persistent or recurrent symptoms postoperatively. In cases of bilateral HFS, a definite differential diagnosis is necessary for appropriate therapy. MVD is recommended as the treatment of choice in patients younger than 30 years old or patients with painful tic convulsif.
The "2-hit" mechanism occurs in vascular endothelial cells lining CCM caverns from 2 patients with somatic and Hispanic-American KRIT1 germline mutations. Methods for somatic mutation detection should focus on vascular endothelial cells lining pristine caverns.
In the present virtual histological algorithm, the underestimation of the necrotic core was revealed. The lack of a hemorrhage component in the virtual histological algorithm is a leading cause of its underestimation.
The current results showed that CRM1 and p27 expression were associated with glioma grade and that high CRM1 protein expression might be related to poor outcome.
The current literature concerning stretch-related injury to nerve roots is reviewed, and a conceptual framework for its diagnosis and treatment is proposed and graphically illustrated using cadaveric specimens. The dynamic biomechanical and functional interrelationships between neural structures and adjacent connective tissue elements are particularly important in the face of spinal deformity.
Aneurysm-initiating remodeling induced by combined high WSS and high, positive WSS gradient is associated with molecular changes implicated in IAs.
Our data demonstrate that TBI causes inflammatory reaction, including increased levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, as well as activated microglial cells. Simvastatin selectively reduces IL-1beta expression and inhibits the activation of microglial cells and astrocytes after TBI, which might be one of the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic benefits of simvastatin treatment of TBI.
Simvastatin treatment provides long-lasting functional improvement after TBI in rats. It also enhances neuronal survival in the hippocampus and increases BDNF levels in the hippocampus secondary to simvastatin treatment.
In a rat model of spinal metastatic disease, local delivery of OncoGel increased the efficacy of surgery and radiotherapy and delayed the onset of neurological decline. These results suggest that OncoGel may be an effective adjuvant therapy in the operative management of metastatic spinal column tumors and that combining local chemotherapy with surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy may improve outcomes of this disease.
Our findings demonstrate that the PHQ-9, when scaled with Rasch analysis, forms a linear interval measurement of depressive symptoms suitable for use in a vision impaired population.
Failure to consult original sources is responsible for errors in descriptions of the Smisch case that is of historical importance because it represents both the first use of a therapeutic contact shell and the first instance of continuous wear. Blown scleral shells and lenses played an important part in the optical correction of keratoconus and the management of other ocular conditions during the first quarter of the 20th century.
Monovision performed better than a center-near aspheric simultaneous vision multifocal contact lens of the same material for distance and near VA only. The multifocal option provides better stereoacuity and near range of clear vision, with little differences in CSF, so a better balance of real-world visual function may be achieved due to minimal binocular disruption.
Opti-Free Express was consistently associated with the more efficient removal of proteins from these silicone hydrogels. More total protein was removed from lotrafilcon B than from galyfilcon A (approximately 2 x more protein) for all four care solutions, and 12 total unique protein species were recovered from galyfilcon A, whereas only 10 were recovered from lotrafilcon B. The higher quantities of protein extracted from lotrafilcon B may be due to stronger protein binding with this material and/or to differences in solution efficacy.
Direct observation in public outdoor recreation settings revealed that only one third of the population wore sunglasses. Further research should examine the use of sunglasses in other locations and investigate the effectiveness of interventions that promote the wearing of sunglasses in settings with risk for ultraviolet radiation exposure.
The progressive addition glasses with BI-prism were found to be effective in alleviating symptoms of presbyopes with symptomatic CI.
OK lenses retain more bacteria than AF rigid gas permeable lenses after bacteria-loaded overnight lens wear. This may increase the risk for an infection in OK patients should suitable conditions be present. Specific education on the cleaning of OK lenses is essential.
Reduced and incomplete blinking along with increased tear film break-up during normal visual tasks may explain the increased level of ocular discomfort symptoms reported at the end of the day, particularly in dry eye patients.
Toric contact lenses with prism-ballast designs demonstrated more vertical coma, but better VA. Positive SA was reduced by spherical and toric contact lenses. The visual quality effect of lens design and material on induced HOAs warrants further investigation.
An individual's color vision performance can be interpreted by relating it to performance of color-normals viewing the test caps at some non-standard distance. This is similar to Snellen notation for acuity.
Although increased tear film osmolarity has been previously observed in DES patients, our study showed lower carnitine levels in DES patients than in healthy subjects, rather than the increased levels expected, although a causal relationship between carnitine levels and hyperosmolarity has not been established. The damage to ocular surface cells because of exposure to hypertonic tear film observed in DES may be partially because of an imbalance in the concentration of carnitine molecules in the tear film relative to the ocular surface cells. We propose, therefore, that carnitine solutions may have a role in preventing the adverse effects of observed hyperosmolarity and suggest that further studies are now warranted to investigate the clinical application of carnitine in the treatment of DES.
Triclosan, indomethacin, caprate and laurate can reduce ADS activity in dental plaque.
These results proved that peptidoglycan biosynthesis plays an important part in a series of bacterial morphologies. The glmM gene may have a constructive role in the virulence properties of S. mutans.
This is the first report of lysogenic bacteria and their inducible viruses in infected root canals.
A. actinomycetemcomitans extract-induced IL-8 and ICAM-1 expression in gingival epithelial cells is mediated by PAR-2.
LPS from two major periodontal pathogens, A. actinomycetemcomitans and P. gingivalis, induced HMGB1 secretion from HGF. Apoptotic and necrotic cell deaths resulted in the enhancement of HMGB1. Our results suggest that HGF can be a source of HMGB1 by both active secretion and passive release, and that HMGB1 from HGF may contribute to periodontal tissue destruction.
In the oral cavity of relatively young women without periodontitis, P. nigrescens, unlike P. intermedia, is a frequent finding. Conceivably, pregnant women harbor increasing numbers of P. nigrescens associated with pregnancy gingivitis.
The results suggest that among the P. intermedia group bacteria, P. intermedia and P. nigrescens type strains can adhere to and invade epithelial cells, the capability of P. intermedia ATCC 25611(T) being highest in this context. This strain proved to have a special affinity in binding to epithelial cell lamellipodia.
A simple two-step PCR procedure using the five sets of primer pairs developed in the present study is a rapid and reliable method for the identification of the recognized oral Veillonella species.
HPVs may be involved in the development or progression of not only OSCC but also of potentially malignant oral lesions.
These results indicate that physiological and transient acidification is not sufficient to kill bacteria, but it causes a temporary acid-impairment of their growth ability, which may function as an ecological determinant for microbial composition in dental plaque.
This in vitro study found biofilm-dependent expression of antimicrobial peptides and inflammatory mediators in GECs.
Diabetic patients in a hyperglycemic state may be generating macrophages that are inherently immunocompromised, contributing to an environment allowing periodontal infections to flourish. As a consequence, people with diabetes who maintain proper control of blood sugar levels may experience an increased immunological benefit when challenged with a periodontal infection.
HCMV and EBV are commonly present in the saliva of periodontitis patients. Periodontitis lesions of systemically healthy subjects seem to constitute the main origin of salivary HCMV, but do not comprise the sole source of salivary EBV.
Archaea might be correlated with periodontal diseases. The diversity of Archaea associated with periodontitis was limited. Almost all sequenced amplicons fell into the genus Methanobrevibacter of the Euryarcheota phylum. M. oralis-like species was the predominant but non-exclusive archaeon in the subgingival dental plaque of patients with periodontitis.
LC-MS/MS offers a sensitive analytical platform to study the disease processes in the root canal environment. The array of proteins expressed in endodontic infections reflects the complex microbial presence and highlights the bacterial species involved in the inflammatory process.
Adult Alstrm cardiomyopathy appears to be a fibrotic process causing impairment of both ventricles. Serial cardiac magnetic resonance scanning has helped clarify the underlying disease progression and responses to treatment. Confirmation of significant mutations in the ALMS1 gene should lead to advice to screen the subject for cardiomyopathy, and metabolic disorders.
MBII correlated better with surface temperature than with tissue temperature; steam pops, on the other hand, correlated better with tissue temperature. MBII was an insensitive marker of steam pops and surface temperature in excess of 80 degrees C. Therefore, MBII should not be used to titrate RF power.
Both systems are useful for ablation of tolerated VT. Noncontact mapping is more effective for ablation of untolerated VT and allows the reduction of procedural and fluoroscopy times. Noninducibility at the end of the procedure seems predictive of freedom from recurrences during follow-up.
We confirmed histologically that scarring contributes to prolongation of repolarization, increased refractoriness, and reductions in conduction and voltage post-MI. Prolongation of repolarization may be further augmented when local activation is earliest or electrogram voltage is decreased within scar.
We conclude that physicians should exercise great caution before labeling any patient's syncope as psychogenic and that prolonged monitoring may be necessary to exclude a potential cardiac rhythm-related etiology.
The CT structural characteristics that may influence its transverse conduction differ between LRA and CS pacing. Steep slope and arborization of the CT are implicated as a geometric factor in its transverse conduction block.
LVADs have a definite impact on cardiac devices in respect with alteration of lead parameters, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and electromagnetic interference.
TEAP did not result in permanent esophageal changes after 24 hours of stimulation. Microscopic lesions of mild erosive esophagitis, seen after 24 hours of TEAP, were absent 7 days postpacing. Mechanical irritation from the catheter cannot be ruled out as a cause of these changes.
Placement of RV active-fixation leads on the septum avoids potential coronary artery compromise.
These results demonstrate that in this animal model, the AIGIS(RX) device reduces the risk for infection of viable pathogens within implant pockets.
In patients with potentially arrhythmic symptoms, ILR plays an important role not only in diagnosing an arrhythmia, but also to rule out an arrhythmic cause.
LVEF before and after surgical LV reconstruction is of limited use as criterium for ICD implantation in patients with end-stage heart failure.
Our data suggest that the presence of contaminants, such as sodium citrate, on the surface of gold nanoparticles might play a pivotal role in inducing cytotoxicity in vitro, but does not influence the uptake of the particles in human ATII-like cell lines.
The DAWGPAWS genome annotation pipeline fills an important need in the annotation of plant genomes by generating computational evidences in a high throughput manner, translating these results to a common file format, and facilitating the human curation of these computational results. We have verified the value of DAWGPAWS by using this pipeline to annotate the genes and transposable elements in 220 BAC insertions from the hexaploid wheat genome (Triticum aestivum L.). DAWGPAWS can be applied to annotation efforts in other plant genomes with minor modifications of program-specific configuration files, and the modular design of the workflow facilitates integration into existing pipelines.
The theoretical background and the relevance of this observation are discussed. Furthermore, this article briefly reviews existing reports on Turner syndrome and psychosis and presents neuropsychiatric changes in patients with Turner syndrome.
These results indicate that short-term prisoners are a population which is highly troubled in a psychiatric sense and shows a need of treatment in prison.
Examination of risk faktors of suicidal behaviour within the framework of hospital admissions should not be restricted exclusively to period of hospital stay. Relevant risk factors can be found even before hospital stay and could be a cue for suicide prevention already in the forefront of admission.
When corrected for inflation, treatment cost per patient for schizophrenia show changes in their distribution over different cost sectors in the health care system but no substantial increases between 1980 and 2002.
As possible reasons for the observed changes we discuss the contemporaneous implementation of a new pharmacotherapeutic treatment option (LHRH-agonists) and an aggravation of the German criminal law for sexual offenders.
There is an urgent need for a clear and transparent method to get from the analysis of existing evidence to treatment recommendations.
These results implicate that BPD patients have deficits in motivational areas while other executive functions are not or only marginally involved.
It seems that classic vocational rehabilitation for insurants who already receive a disability pension does not lead to a higher rate of reintegration into work. The relatively large number of insurants who want to return to their jobs implies the necessity of a special rehabilitation programme with concepts for reintegration: an individual case-management should help to continually counsel the patients and, by means of work-trial phases, prepare them for their return into their career.
Implications include the need to assess maternal depressive symptoms of mothers of children with asthma, in order to improve asthma management for low-income urban children.
Although minorities report higher pain levels than Whites, race/ethnicity does not explain utilization of treatment for pain. Future studies should consider more nuanced examination of interactions among race/ethnicity, pain, and socioeconomic variables.
The use of an interactive multimedia device to intervene in diabetes self-care was effective only in raising the subjects' knowledge about the disease. Additionally, the subjects may need more time to implement more effective blood sugar control and self-care activities after receiving instruction.
The Internet can be a viable option to support nurses' cessation and is available to accommodate their work schedules. The sample is similar to the general nursing population, except for higher levels of education. Efforts are needed to assist nurses struggling with nicotine addiction and disseminate cessation resources, particularly targeting nurses with the highest prevalence of current smoking, for example licensed practical nurses.
Results of the evaluation indicated the intervention significantly increased women's practical knowledge regarding use and cleaning of the breast pump and accessories. With knowledge of proper use of breast pumps, women will be more likely to successfully utilize pumps to provide adequate milk volumes for SCN infants. A culturally appropriate educational intervention in developing countries appears to be a feasible means of facilitating instruction of breast pump use.
Gang youth are a vulnerable population amenable to nursing intervention. Gang youth may have particular health care needs and may need special access to health care.
Although findings support previous research regarding increased likelihood of enrollment when there is concordance between enrollees' goals and study topic, the establishment of trust between potential enrollees and researchers cannot be underestimated.
Noninvasive MSCT-CA is a potentially useful tool in the diagnostic workup of patients with stable angina owing to its capability to detect or exclude significant CAD.
Right PVE extends the indications for hepatectomy in patients with liver metastases and those with biliary cancers who have an insufficient potential hepatic functional reserve.
DWI has an important role in the differential diagnosis of cystic cerebral masses but not in tumour characterisation. PWI is helpful in differentiating high-from low-grade gliomas and lymphomas from high-grade gliomas.
High-resolution whole-body MRA with Gd-BOPTA may be considered a reliable modality for imaging systemic atherosclerosis in candidates for endovascular procedures. The subclinical detection of the total atherosclerotic burden has potential implications for secondary care in this population.
In a screening population with positive FOBT, CT colonography without faecal tagging and no definite size threshold for the reporting of polyps showed very low specificity but high sensitivity in the detection of all colorectal lesions.
Compared with two other commercial systems, Cyclopus was more sensitive (R2 p=0.14; CADx p=0.02) and less specific (R2 p=0.02; CADx p=0.64).
Percutaneous ablation therapies represent a safe and valuable alternative for treating localised pain from single bone metastasis, providing rapid (4-week) relief of symptoms and a significant reduction in morphine doses. This contributes to improving the quality of life of patients with metastatic disease.
The analysis uncovered a complex problem: although radiologists save many lives through the radiographic diagnosis of breast cancer and consequently contribute to the welfare of society, in practice, they can face real or alleged errors, with serious judicial consequences. Awareness of professional risk in current society may represent a valuable reference for choosing and planning to work in radiology.
This study indicates that PET/CT is very useful in staging and restaging patients suffering from colorectal cancer. It was particularly useful when recurrences could not be visualised either clinically or by imaging despite increasing tumour markers, as it guaranteed an earlier diagnosis. PET/CT not only provides high diagnostic performance in terms of sensitivity and specificity, enabling modification of patient treatment, but it is also a unique, high-profile procedure that can produce cost savings.
Although combined CT and fluoroscopic guidance is normally preferred for difficult areas such as the cervical and upper thoracic vertebrae, to ensure operator radiation protection, the technique should also be considered for areas normally treated under fluoroscopic guidance alone. However, a larger patient series is needed to correctly evaluate the real contribution of low-dose CT to patient exposure.
We conclude that intensity of stimulation influenced onset time and success rate.
Use of a comprehensive, multimodal analgesic regimen (TJRA Clinical Pathway) in patients undergoing lower extremity joint replacement surgery provides a significant reduction in the estimated total direct medical costs. The reduction in mean cost is primarily associated with lower hospital-based (Medicare Part A) costs, with the greatest overall cost difference appearing among patients with significant comorbidities (ASA PS III-IV patients).
A high prevalence of hemostatic abnormalities in patients undergoing major hepatic resection while receiving epidural analgesia occurred. Important considerations may include discussion with the surgical team, measuring coagulation, and heightened clinical monitoring in the postoperative period.
Two-segment PVB can be an alternative to 4-segment PVB in inguinal hernia surgeries. Decreasing the number of injections required in this technique may further increase patient comfort and decrease complications.
The pharmacokinetic and efficacy profiles of a single 15-mg dose of EREM were not significantly altered when administered 15, 30, or 60 mins after an analgesic epidural dose of bupivacaine.
The mechanism of prolonged nerve block of CaCl2 coadministered with LAs seems to be a raised threshold for nerve excitation. Major histopathologic changes at higher concentrations of CaCl2 are evident, and therefore, clinical application as an adjuvant to LAs seems unlikely.
Our case series shows the feasibility of using ultrasound imaging to guide selective cervical nerve root injections. It may facilitate identifying critical vessels at unexpected locations relative to the intervertebral foramen and avoiding injury to such vessels, which is the leading cause of the reported complications from cervical nerve root injections. A randomized controlled trial to compare the effectiveness and safety of ultrasound imaging against other imaging techniques seems warranted.
Anesthesia providers considering an ultrasound equipment purchase should objectively evaluate machine models that have features most important to their own clinical practice. Ergonomic design, physical and adjustable features, data management, ease of use, image quality, and cost are important features to consider when evaluating an ultrasound machine.
The present investigation demonstrates that ultrasound guidance and nerve stimulation provide similar onset time, success rate, and duration of motor blockade for coracoid IBPB; however, ultrasound guidance reduces the time required to perform the block.
There is no significant difference between the 2 techniques in terms of adequacy for surgery and subjective postoperative dysesthesias. The ultrasound-guided infraclavicular block is associated with greater patient comfort and willingness to undergo the same anesthetic when compared with the transarterial axillary block.
Adjunctive ultrasonography results in similar success rates, total anesthesia-related times, and block-related pain scores for the SCB, ICB, and AXB.
Two cases of Horner syndrome presenting after administration of an epidural test dose are reported. This uncommon initial finding could not be reproduced with subsequent epidural activation, perhaps suggesting that initial conditions within the epidural space had been altered. Successful utilization of neuraxial regional analgesia was achieved with careful postoperative monitoring of the patients.
These data suggest that the ageing process in the ovary of the Sprague-Dawley rat is accompanied by an increased sympathetic tone of the ovary. Consequently, this sympathetic change could be related to a neuroendocrine-driven formation of a polycystic condition similar to that observed in the sympathetic-activated adult ovary.
We suggest that NUDT9 may be involved in the regulation of the menstrual cycle and may be related to the proliferation of glandular cells in the human endometrium.
The manifestations of corpus luteum hemorrhage in this study were similar to those observed in the 1980s at the same medical center. However, the demographic parameters (age, marital status) and the modalities of treatment (conservative treatment, mode of surgical interventions) had changed in line with the evolution of society, culture, and the progress of medical science over the past 20 years.
A decrease in 24-hour urinary calcium and increase in protein between 20-28 weeks' gestation are risk factors for preeclampsia.
It is necessary to perform a GBS test 4 weeks after an initial negative GBS culture at 35-37 weeks of gestation. RT-PCR provides a simple and rapid alternative method for detecting rectovaginal GBS colonization at the time of labor.
Hysterectomy performed via the Maylard incision was associated with the use of fewer additional analgesics than hysterectomy performed via the Pfannenstiel incision.
Our results showed that calcium supplements reduced early fatigability, changes in appetite, and depression in women with PMS.
This study showed that the weak linkages within the ER could be identified, and these could provide the basis for further studies aimed at predicting possible new ER mutations.
More than 80% of women in this study benefited from the use of GnRH agonist to produce menopause, suggesting that this can be an alternative choice for managing perimenopausal women with symptomatic uterine myomas.
IRF-1-E7 was shown to be responsible for the positive regulation of many interleukins and to be involved in the differentiation of T-helper cells.
The effects of metformin and calcium-vitamin D in regulating the menstrual cycle suggest that they could also be effective for the treatment of anovulation and oligomenorrhea, with possible consequences for pregnancy rates in PCOS patients.
EA could be useful for reducing uterine artery blood flow impedance, but did not increase the pregnancy rate in patients undergoing IVF.
UPD should be investigated as a possible etiology in all cases of unexplained IUGR. SNP microarrays can be useful for confirming this diagnosis.
Many methods of feticide have been used, including injection of potassium chloride, lidocaine, digoxin or hyperosmolar urea into the fetal circulation. However, these methods all use medications or compounds with some potential for maternal toxicity or side effects. We provide a relatively safe and effective method of feticide for use in late termination of pregnancy.
Prenatal diagnosis of diastematomyelia during the 14th week of pregnancy is possible using high-resolution ultrasound. To the best of our knowledge, this is the earliest case presented in the literature.
Because platinum-based chemotherapy can be safely given during pregnancy, hysterectomy can be avoided in cases of bilateral malignant ovarian tumors if the uterus is not grossly involved, so allowing preservation of an existing pregnancy.
Although malignant melanoma of the female genital tract is uncommon, elderly women should undergo regular gynecologic examinations and suspicious pigmented lesions should be biopsied. The use of immunohistochemical assays could markedly improve diagnosis. However, the prognosis for these tumors is poor, regardless of the treatment delivered, and they are associated with a high rate of recurrence and low long-term survival. Surgery is the best available treatment for controlling and potentially curing malignant melanomas.
In this case, the treatment of choice was complete excision of the tumor, which was considered to be curative.
Preliminary descriptive studies have suggested that statins (lovastatin) may have anti HIV-1 activity and that their administration is safe, with the potential effect of controlling HIV-1 replication in chronically infected individuals who had not received antiretroviral medications. Considering that there is limited clinical data available on this topic, all these findings warrant further evaluation to determine if long-term administration of statins may benefit the virological and immunological evolution in HIV-1-infected individuals before the use of antiretroviral therapy is required.
Using a validated survey with anonymous data collection, we found no improvement in continence, defined as pad-free, with attempted or successful nerve sparing RP. Based on our study, the goal of improving urinary outcomes should not be used as a justification for a nerve sparing template at radical prostatectomy.
Prostatic urothelial carcinoma is often under appreciated and not well understood. Malignant involvement of different anatomic locations of the prostate (i.e., mucosa, ducts, acini, and stroma) influence not only diagnosis but treatment of disease. Although debate exists regarding optimal therapy for mucosal involvement, if the prostatic stroma is involved, radical cystoprostatectomy is the treatment of choice.
Percentage of cells extruding daunorubicin in RCCC is elevated, indicating that P-gp activity may contribute to multidrug resistance in RCCC.
The low mean scores of anxiety and depression from T2 to T4 indicate that most of the prostate cancer patients do not need help from mental health professionals. Nevertheless, some patients may profit from mental health support, especially at the beginning of the stay in the hospital.
Sunitinib is preclinically active against urothelial carcinoma, and enhances the activity of cisplatin probably by targeting the stroma.
This is one of the few studies to address the role of XAF1 in a clinical setting. The data presented here identify XAF1 as a novel predictive and prognostic factor in bladder cancer patients. Furthermore, our observations are in line with previous studies, which point towards XAF1 as a tumor-suppressor gene. Nonetheless, additional studies, both mechanistic and translational, are warranted and may help not only in corroborating the role of XAF1 as a prognostic marker, but also as a potential target for anticancer therapy.
Our results corroborate previous reports of 8q24 as a prostate cancer susceptibility locus and provide evidence for rs1447295 as a potentially important genetic marker. Further studies are required to confirm whether the adjacent breast cancer-associated variant rs13281615 may be inversely associated with prostate cancer risk.
A profile of HAase related to low Gleason score and non-tumor recurrence was characterized by expression of HYAL3-v1, HYAL1-v3, and HYAL3-v2. More studies should be made in order to confirm with larger series.
The results show that the instituted changes in the delivery of hepatitis B vaccine have been effective in reducing the transmission of hepatitis B to children and indicate that Tonga appears to have achieved the elimination target of less than 1% HBsAg prevalence in children. This convenience survey used a simple, cost effective and reproducible study design. Convenience testing can be recommended for surveillance of the effectiveness of immunization programmes in settings where the population has good access to health services.
We found reasonable agreement (73%; 24/33) between ultrasonography and standing radiography for diagnosis of pelvic-femoral disorders. Ultrasonography was more useful for ilial wing fractures and radiography for acetabular fractures.
Ultrasonography is a rapid, safe imaging technique for detecting disorders of the pelvic region with a high diagnostic yield and is a preferred initial approach in horses with severe hindlimb lameness.
Incisional hernia repair in horses can be successfully achieved with a laparoscopic intraperitoneal mesh onlay technique.
Laparoscopic mesh hernioplasty has promise as a safe and effective method for repair of incisional hernias in horses.
Lateral plating of ilial fractures in cats is associated with a high incidence of screw loosening.
Pelvic canal narrowing &gt;45% is associated with a high risk of recurrent constipation.
Dorsal plating of feline ilial fractures results in significantly less screw loosening and pelvic canal narrowing at 4-6 weeks after surgery compared with LP.
Dorsal plating of feline iliac fractures may reduce complications associated with pelvic canal narrowing such as constipation and megacolon.
Point A and a drill angle of 90+/-4 degrees for drilling of the feline sacral body is recommended. This margin for error risks ventral exit from the body in 23/40 (58%) of the sacra in this study. Reduction of the margin for error to +/-2 degrees would reduce the risk of ventral exit to 14/40 (35%) of the sacra in this study.
Drilling at 90 degrees to the feline sacral articular surface is recommended. Findings from this study present a strong case for use of angled drill guides.
Both acute and chronic separation between the annular and auricular cartilages, in the absence of middle ear disease, can be successfully treated using primary repair via a caudal approach to the ear canal, with excellent long-term outcome.
Primary repair should be considered in animals with separation of the annular and auricular cartilages.
Fibular fracture is uncommon after TPLO. Risk factors are increased body weight, greater preoperative TPA, greater change in TPA, and TPLO performed without a jig. All fractures occurred during convalescence.
Owners should be warned of potential complications and risk factors associated for fibular fracture after TPLO.
Percutaneous CT lymphography results in excellent detection of the thoracic duct and abnormal thoracic duct drainage patterns both pre- and postoperatively. The contribution of superficial cervical lymph node drainage to reoccurrence of effusions can be evaluated.
Percutaneous CT lymphography using ultrasound-guided contrast medium injection should be considered as an alternative to conventional open abdominal approaches to radiographic or CT lymphography.
Risk factors for POI in this study were nonspecific although horses with intestinal resection are at higher risk compared with horses without intestinal resection.
Predicting with certainty which cases will develop POI remains elusive.
Standing CT can be used to accurately determine anatomic landmarks for screw insertion in lag fashion in sagittal fractures of the distal phalanx.
This study has a clear clinical relevance for improved internal fixation of sagittal fractures of the distal phalanx.
Mineralized and nonmineralized ST have many similarities. Although lameness is usually unilateral, the supraspinatus tendon may be affected bilaterally.
Ultrasonography and MRI are good imaging techniques for detection of ST especially the nonmineralized form. Surgical treatment results in good recovery of limb function. Nonmineralized ST is a recently described disorder in dogs and evaluation of more cases is necessary to determine outcome after surgical or medical treatment.
In osteotomized tibia, chondroid tissue is the main component of the mineralization front during distraction, calcified cartilaginous tissue during consolidation, and then both tissues are replaced by woven, lamellar, and osteonal bone. The ossification mechanism of distraction callus is transchondroidal.
BS-SEM is an effective technique for studying progression of bone healing during DO. The presence of chondroid tissue during DO explains why callus mineralization occurs more rapidly during distraction than during static stabilization.
Results support the contention that there have been improvements in hip joint phenotype classifications in dogs in the United States since the previous study (1989-1992), through increases in the proportion of dogs receiving excellent and good classifications.
Hip joint phenotype classifications can be used by dog breeders to develop breeding programs to improve the hip joints of future generations of dogs.
Laparoscopic splenectomy can be accomplished in goats using 4 portals in the left flank and a combination of monopolar cautery dissection of splenic attachments, ligation of vessels using metal clips and intracorporeal ligatures, and intra-abdominal morcellation of the detached spleen in a specimen retrieval bag.
Laparoscopic splenectomy is an effective and safe technique in goats.
An inguinal approach for cystostomy tube placement facilitated rapid catheter placement into the bladder with minimal soft tissue dissection. Cystopexy during abdominal wall closure provided peritoneal protection should premature dislodgement of the cystostomy tube occur.
An inguinal approach should be considered for rapid tube cystostomy particularly in metabolically compromised animals.
An enterectomy was required to treat an intestinal obstruction caused by a trichobezoar entangled in a CEEA-stapled anastomosis.
Development of trichobezoar and subsequent bowel obstruction should be considered an unusual but potential long-term complication of CEEA-stapled anastomosis.
In this alpaca with traumatic origin of the lateral patellar luxation and normal femoro-tibial alignment, a combination of retinacular imbrication, contralateral release, and trochlear block recession were successful for long-term treatment of lateral patellar luxation.
Although trochlear block recession is most commonly performed in small animals, this technique may be useful in treatment of traumatic patellar luxations in camelids.
Cement provides stable fixation of the tibial component in canine TKR.
Cemented TKR yields adequate clinical function and stifle joint excursion in the dog. Clinical studies are needed to determine the long-term fate of cemented TKR implants, to assess the influence of implant design on implant fixation and wear, and to obtain objective functional data.
TKR is a viable treatment option for dogs with severe stifle OA.
With continued refinement of surgical technique, instrumentation, and implants, TKR could become a reliable treatment for dogs with disabling, painful nonseptic stifle OA.
THR using a BioMedtrix canine cementless modular prosthesis restored hip function in an alpaca with coxofemoral osteoarthritis from chronic SCFE.
THR may be an appropriate treatment for selected traumatic and degenerative conditions of the coxofemoral joint in alpacas.
Use of a joint distractor allowed arthroscopic observation of all relevant structures. Partial meniscectomy was readily performed.
Use of a joint distractor may simplify arthroscopic assessment of the canine stifle and avoid potential morbidity associated with fat pad debridement.
Distraction and translation of the medial compartment of the stifle joint using invasive pin distraction allowed observation and palpation of the caudal horn of the medial meniscus so that assessment and treatment were readily accomplished without apparent morbidity.
With careful attention to accurate pin placement, invasive pin distraction of the medial compartment of the canine stifle joint may improve arthroscopic evaluation and treatment of meniscal pathology.
Tangential radiography of the TMJ may complement and add to information obtained from clinical examination and ultrasonography before referral for more advanced imaging techniques.
Trephination into the CFS coupled with fenestration of the VCB provided consistent access to both the rostral and caudal aspects of the RMS and VCS. A trephine hole into the RMS provided poor access to the VCS, and placed the reserve crowns of the maxillary cheek teeth at risk of damage.
The RMS and VCS can be best examined endoscopically using approaches with fenestration of the VCB.
Trephination into the CFS with VCB fenestration is a minimally invasive technique that provides consistent access to the RMS and VCS. It facilitates diagnosis of many sinus disorders and endoscopically guided treatment of many horses with sinus cysts and primary sinusitis, in combination with sinus lavage.
Many diseases affecting the RMS and VCS can be diagnosed and resolved endoscopically using a CFS approach with VCB fenestration, thus avoiding the need for osteoplastic sinus surgery and its associated risks and complications.
A magnetic retriever can be used for arthroscopic removal of metallic foreign bodies from the equine talocrural joint.
A magnetic retriever may be useful for arthroscopic retrieval of metallic foreign bodies from synovial cavities in horses, especially when direct observation is impeded by inflamed synovial villi and fibrin.
Long-term outcome after gastric bypass procedures was substantially improved compared with previous reports. Factors that may have contributed to improved survival include better case selection and performing the gastrojejunostomy with the jejunum aligned from left to right.
The prognosis for long-term survival after surgical bypass of pyloric obstruction is excellent. The overall prognosis for long-term survival after surgical bypass of duodenal obstruction is fair but should be considered guarded in those with pre-existing duodenal adhesions.
Partial right ventriculectomy can be performed under TVIO through an incised pericardial patch.
DCRV in cat can be successfully treated by partial right ventriculectomy performed under TVIO through an incised pericardial patch.
Use of protective gauze sponges is effective in protecting the proximal tibial soft tissue envelope from an oscillating TPLO saw blade, but results in retention of microscopic cotton particulate debris within the operative site. Significant soft tissue trauma is seen only in the caudoproximal tibial muscle group if protective gauze sponges are not used.
Retraction and protection of the caudoproximal tibial soft tissue envelope is recommended during TPLO; however, to prevent retention of microscopic particulate cotton debris, alternatives to cotton gauze sponges should be considered as protective devices.
Trismus could not be overcome by detachment of the masseter and digastricus muscle insertions from the mandible, and symphysiotomy was required to reposition the tongue in the oral cavity.
In dogs with MMM, tongue position should be monitored during anesthesia to avoid inadvertent protrusion and swelling from venous congestion. Use of anesthetic monitoring equipment on the tongue, such as a pulse oximeter probe, should be avoided in these patients.
HEF can be used to stabilize a proximal tibial Salter-Harris type II fracture in a 5-month-old foal.
HEF should be considered as another option for repair of proximal tibial Salter-Harris type II fractures in foals.
Use of Type Ia ESF with positive profile threaded pins is a practical and biologic method for treatment of isolated tibial fractures in skeletally immature dogs
ESF is an effective alternative treatment to external coaptation and internal fixation for isolated diaphyseal tibial fractures in skeletally immature dogs.
Use of the AP screw system in cattle is an excellent option for DIPJ arthrodesis with minimal postoperative morbidity and excellent return to function.
Isolates had a wide range of MIC; however, growth of all 6 selected strains were inhibited within the range of concentrations tested, including 2 strains with MICs of 500 microg/mL. PAE duration was not influenced by the MIC of amikacin but was significantly longer with treatment at 1000 microg/mL than at lower concentrations.
Clinical isolates of MRSA are susceptible to amikacin at concentrations achieved by regional perfusion: however, the modest duration of PAE observed suggest that further laboratory and in vivo evaluation be conducted before recommending the technique for clinical use.
Simultaneous restoration of circulating volume and rapid diagnosis are keys in determining the patient outcome in this situation. Though the mortality is high if untreated, the operation is relatively simple and carries a low risk.
IBS subjects do not show lower rational intelligence than controls, but lower experiential intelligence is nevertheless associated with IBS.
Enhancement patterns on dynamic CT correlated with angiogenesis and may be modified by the extent of fibrosis.
This is the largest group of patients with MC known to the authors that has been studied to date. Conditions such as celiac disease, IBS, and thyroid diseases were found to be related to MC. Furthermore, neither an increased risk of colorectal cancer nor IBD was associated with MC in this study.
Patients with MMM might develop PH. Exact mechanisms leading to PH in MMM are still controversial. As in other etiologies, variceal bleeding and ascites are the most common presentations. Anemia may correlate with, and/or predict, the severity of the PH presentation in these patients. EVL can successfully control variceal bleeding in MMM. Further clinical studies are required.
Serum BA profiling in IBD patients that indicates impaired intestinal barrier function and increased detoxification is suitable for advanced diagnostic characterization and differentiation of IBD subgroups with defined clinical manifestations.
High prevalence of high-risk HPV in ESCC in Mexico does not support the hypothesis that HPV-associated ESCC is more common in areas with higher ESCC incidence rates.
Complications following PEG placement in patients with VP shunts were infrequent in this study.
Our study suggests that more strict and frequent recommendations for colonoscopy such as COL5 and COL3 could be considered as economically reasonable second primary CRC screening strategies for Korean male cancer survivors.
Clarithromycin resistance is an uncommon occurrence among Malaysian isolates of H pylori strains and the mutations A2142G and A2143G detected were associated with low-level resistance.
CPB induces significant microcirculatory injury of the small bowel in rats. The major underlying mechanisms are blood flow redistribution and generalized inflammatory response associated with CPB.
The Chinese version of the NDI is a reliable and valid scale for measuring health-related quality of life and disease severity in Chinese patients with FD.
HCV-core protein activates the OAS gene promoter specifically and effectively. Utilization of OAS gene promoter would be an ideal strategy for developing HCV-specific gene therapy.
Postoperative QOL was better in the EA than EP or EE group. To improve QOL after proximal gastrectomy for upper third gastric cancer, the EA procedure using a stapler is safe and feasible for esophagogastrostomy.
Primary liver tumors should be considered in differential diagnoses in patients with ovarian cancer who subsequently present with liver tumors. This is particularly important when there is no direct evidence of recurrence of ovarian cancer.
In fatal EV71 infection, the major pathologic changes lie in the central nervous system. The pulmonary lesions are mainly secondary in nature. The usual cause of death is cerebral edema complicated by brain herniation and pulmonary edema. It is also noteworthy that some cases show only lung damages, without classic neurologic changes.
Chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis can mimic other types of lung conditions with interstitial fibrosis, especially UIP and NSIP. As a result, some cases of chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis may be misdiagnosed as such.
Severe hemolytic anemia or fetal hydrop or hemophagocytosis caused by the infection of parvovirus B19 can lead to death of infected neonates and fetus. Pathological confirmation of parvovirus B19 infection relies on the identification of erythroblasts containing the diagnostic intranuclear inclusions.
"Eosinophilic mucin" is the typical histopathological feature of AFS. AB-PAS, GMS and MUC5B staining methods can used to detect fungal species in mucin. Accurate diagnosis of AFS requires correlations among clinical findings, radiologic examinations, laboratory tests and histopathologic features. However, the ultimate diagnosis requires a histopathologic confirmation.
HP, SSA and TSA have their morphologic characteristics, with some overlapping features noted. The distinction between SSA and HP can be difficult. Diagnosis of SSA relies mostly on architectural rather than cytologic features. The distinction between TSA and SSA depends mainly on the presence of dysplasia. Ectopic crypt formation is almost exclusively seen in TSA. The distribution and percentage of Ki-67-positive cells are also helpful in subtyping of various colorectal serrated lesions. In general, the proliferative index is lower in serrated adenoma (TSA or SSA) than in tubular adenoma.
Intraoperative frozen section diagnosis of BTO has a low sensitivity and PPV. Underdiagnosis is not uncommon. Surgical management based on intraoperative frozen section diagnosis should be used with caution.
Successfully established two monoclonal tumor cell strains stably expressing GFP: MGC-803-GFP and U14-GFP. Transplantation of these cells into mice can establish tumor metastasis models which could be used for future visualized tumor research in vivo.
Subset of mouse MSCs have the potential to differentiate into smooth muscle-like cells, a possible cell source responsible for atherosclerotic plaque formation, and myocardin expression may play an important role during this process.
The data of the multicenter investigation can basically reflect the situation of the occurrence of IVH in premature infants in major big cities of China. However, more than 60% of population in China lives in the rural area, it is possible that there is a higher incidence of IVH in premature infants than the results of the present survey owing to the limited medical condition in the rural area. Further multicenter investigation in the rural area is expected to be undertaken in future.
Morbidity of growth retardation was high among premature infants at birth by weight, length and head circumference. Such growth retardation was further worsened before discharge. Birth weight below the 10th percentile of expected value, later introduction of enteral feeding and lower growth velocity during hospital stay were risk factors for postnatal growth retardation of premature infants. More aggressive nutritional support strategy needs to be considered for improving the nutritional status and development of premature infants in China.
Neonatal screening is of paramount importance in preventing mental retardation and developmental delay after CH and PKU. It is necessary to attach more importance to increase the rate of coverage, screening and treatment, as well as social awareness of neonatal screening. It is important to focus on establishment of new screening techniques so as to improve the level of child health care in China.
LTDC is a common disease in newborns, which is similar to laryngomalacia. For neonates suspected of LTDC, laryngoscopic examination should be performed first, while laryngeal CT scan is an important diagnostic basis. Cyst puncture can ameliorate the symptoms of the patients, while surgical removal is the method of radical cure.
There is considerable variability in the extent of retinal vascularization in infants who we born between 31 to 34 weeks of gestation. Modifiable maternal and fetal factors could influence extent of vascularization at birth. Immature retina is the critical factor of ROP. Gestational age is the main factor of the immature retina in premature infants.
The children with cardiac syncope have overt clinical features, especially abnormal findings in electrocardiogram and exertion related syncope spells are the most common clinical features.
rhGH solution (Iintropin AQ) is a safe and effective preparation in the replacement therapy for children with GH deficiency.
If patients had no HLA-matched sibling, the combination of R-ATG and CSA remains the best combination for the treatment of children with SAA, providing a survival advantage at 5 years.
2E8-Genistein immunotoxin can significantly target the Nalm-6 cells in vitro in a time response manner and the apoptosis induction is involved in the course of this killing effect.
The infection rates of mycoplasma and chlamydia in children suspected NGU were high. Mycoplasma showed drug resistance to a different degree to 10 common antibiotics. The results of chemosensitivity showed that josamycin had the highest susceptibility rate.
Serum GM detection was an effective method for the diagnosis of pediatric IPA.
The congenital cardiovascular malformation was the main reason to develop tracheobronchomalacia in children. The symptom of majority of the cases with cardiovascular malformation would be improved within 6 months after surgical intervention. In severe cases, treatments included mechanical ventilation and tracheostoma. Stenting could be applied in refractory cases, but it had certain limitations.
DEP inhalation increased the airway responsiveness of asthma rats in immediate reaction, promoted the lung epithelial cell loss, inflammatory cell infiltration, basement membrane fibrosis and goblet cell hyperplasia.
Mutation c.892C &gt; T of IDS gene causes MPSII in this family and prenatal diagnosis in one affected fetus was achieved.
The prevalence of NAFLD and MS hits high in obese children. The prevalence of NAFLD was very high among children with MS and NAFLD and MS shared the common mechanism of IR. The higher prevalence of MS and higher frequencies of MS components were tightly associated with the development of NAFLD and severity of IR.
The [Phe](blood) could correspondingly represent the [Phe](brain) in most HPA patients. The Phe concentration could reflect the degree of mental retardation substantially in 22 cases with HPA older than 4 months. And the [Phe](brain) could more accurately illustrate it. (1)HMRS can be used to quantitate intracerebral Phe concentrations non-invasively in HPA patients. Preliminary findings suggest that interindividual variations in the kinetics of Phe uptake and metabolism do exist. (1)HMRS has great clinical significance in understanding the mechanism of HPA patient's mental retardation, providing proper objective standards for better diagnosis and treatment of HPA patients.
There are relationships between MECP2 genotype and phenotype:the RTT patients with nonsense mutations located in MBD tend to develop more severe phenotype;there are significant differences in language skill and language impairment rate in the groups with p.T158M, p.R168X, c.806del and p.R255X, which had higher frequency in children below five-years of age and the p.R168X present with most severe impairment.
The clinical manifestations in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease are nonspecific. Colonoscopic examination and biopsy are valuable in establishing the diagnosis of pediatric ulcerative colitis. It is important for colon involved CD children to have a colonoscopic examination. But the mucosal biopsies were short of specificity. Multi-place and deep biopsy are needed to improve the diagnosis.
(1) The serum LEP levels decreased on 7 d of life and reincreased on 12 d of life, which corresponded to the changes of the physical development of premature infants. (2) The serum LEP levels in sick premature infants decreased definitely as compared with control group, which suggested that diseases had negative influences on the LEP levels and the physical developments were slowed down in sick premature infants. (3) The serum levels of NPY, INS and IGF-1 had positive correlations with LEP levels as well as BMI at the early period of life, which suggested that NPY, INS and IGF-1, cooperating with LEP, might take part in the regulation of development of premature infants.
The results from this series indicate that the placement of an Ommaya reservoir is relatively safe in newborn infants and is useful in the initial management of neonates with PHH and may be beneficial in improving their neurodevelopmental outcomes. A multicenter randomized trial may be needed to further validate the results of this report.
The newly established growth charts represented the growth level of healthy and well-nourished Chinese children. The sample size was very large and national, the data were high-quality and the smoothing method was internationally accepted. The new Chinese growth charts are recommended as the Chinese child growth standards in 21st century used in China.
Childhood Ewing's sarcoma family tumors were not very rare, and the prognosis was acceptable with optimal treatment. RS-2002 Protocol was effective and safe in treating such patients.
The HLA-identical sibling's BMT seems to be the periorit treatment of choice for the WAS patient.
In this study, we found a part of gene mutations spectrum in Chinese patients with methylmalonic acidemia and homocysteinemia, in which the 609G&gt;A (W203X) may be the hotspot mutation of MMACHC gene. This would be helpful in the prenatal diagnosis and gene screening programs of methylmalonic acidemia and homocystinemia.
Vascular endothelial dysfunction was present in early stage of young diabetic rats and taurine supplement could protect against this early endothelial dysfunction by its antioxidation to inhibit the role of oxLDL/LOX-1 system in young rats with diabetes mellitus.
These findings suggest that persons bearing the MCP-1 genotype GG produce high concentrations of MCP-1, which increases the risk of active TB infection in Chongqing Han people. These findings are more significant in child patients than in adult patients with TB.
Hyperoxia induced neovascularization and inhibited the expression of ang-2 in the retinae; and the neovascularization is in accordance with the change of angiopoietin-2 expressed in retinae, suggesting that there is a close relationship between the expression of ang-2 and retinal vascular development.
Intensive and early administration of intravenous amino acid [2.4 g/(kg.d)] improves preterm infants' growth and the tolerance of enteral feeding. It also reduces the cost of hospitalization, and the incidence of sepsis.
The occurrence of crush syndrome is mainly because of extremities crush injury and also has significant relations with age, time being szeged and closed crush injury in children. Infection of incisional wound after CS fasciotomy is a risk factor for aggravation of CS.
Following the Wenchuan earthquake disaster, wound infection profiles of pediatric patients were significantly different, Acinetobacter baumanii was the main common organism isolated from wounds in contrast to the previous low isolation rate. The isolated bacteria were highly and multiple drug resistant and it was difficult to treat. Knowing the distribution and the drug resistance pattern of pathogen is of paramount importance in guiding the clinical treatment.
Administration of mannitol, methylprednisolone, IVIG and other supportive treatments in time and reasonably might have advantages in avoiding aggravation of the condition and enhancing the rate of successful rescue in patients with nervous system involvement.
In HFMD with AFP cases, MRI of spinal cord showed unilateral or bilateral lesions in the anterior horn regions of the spinal cord (C(2)-C(7) or T(12)-L(1)) on T(1)/T(2)-weighted images. AFP may be to some degree reversible in HFMD cases. MRI can directly and completely show the range and degree of changes associated with AFP in HFMD cases, thus provide instructive suggestions to its treatment. The acute paralysis of HFMD cases may be benefited from earlier treatment for AFP.
Imaging methods were selected according to the type of conjoined twins and the clinical symptoms and signs. The radiologic investigation can reveal the structure and size of conjunction area. Imaging investigation has important significance for the prediction of difficulty in surgery, selection of surgical procedures, and evaluation of prognosis.
(1) The coverage rate of 9 antigen combinations in our study was 88.4%. The occurrences of frequency of different antibody combinations in B-ALL were different, and also different from that of western countries. The occurrence frequencies of antibody combinations CD21/CD10/CD34/CD19, CD22/CD10/CD34/CD19, CD10/CD56/CD34/-CD19 and TdT/Cu/CD34/CD19 were lower than those of the western report, while CD38/CD10/-CD34/CD19, CD45/CD19/CD10/CD34, CD58/CD10/CD34/CD19 and CD66c/CD10/CD34/CD19 were similar to those of the reports from western countries. (2) TdT/CD10/CD34/CD19 may work as a simplified method to detect MRD in Chinese population. (3) The occurrence frequency of CD38/CD10/CD34/CD19, CD45/CD19/CD10/CD34, CD58/CD10/CD34/CD19, TdT/CD10/CD34/CD19 could be effective remediation and evidence to evaluate the remission quality and guide the therapy, especially for those with no original MRD marker record. (4) CD58/CD10/CD34/CD19 and TdT/CD10/CD34/CD19 may correlate with good prognosis, but CD66c/CD10/CD34/CD19 and CD38/CD10/CD34/CD19 may predict poor prognosis. These results might contribute to individual risk evaluation and guide the therapy selection.
Growth patterns of height and weight at the different age stages were summarized for Chinese children, and simple reference data of height and weight velocity from 0 to 18 years and approximate estimation formula from 1 - 10 years was presented for clinical practice.
During the period between 2002 and 2006, the 52 completed projects in pediatrics showed difference in the distribution and quality of accomplishment among subspecialties and among types of supported projects; there are some gaps between pediatrics and some other clinical basic subspecialties II, this situation released the research status and problems in development of pediatrics in China. The general projects completion was good, and many projects obtained research achievements, which reflect the leading function of NSFC in pediatric research.
PGP9.5 immunoreactive nerve fibers might confer the occurrence of pelvic pain, however, NF immunoreactive nerve fibers may not involved in the pathogenesis of pain.
The more extent of endometrioma adhesions was related to severer pelvic pain symptoms, longer operating time and more blood loss. Postoperative pain recurrence rate was observed in moderate-to-severe adhesion group. Extent of adhesions was irrelevant to cyst recurrence.
Pelvic adhesions are characteristic lesions of endometriosis, the site and degree pelvic adhesions are closely correlated with pain symptoms.
Edema, excessive weight gain, pre-hypertension and hypoproteinemia are early warning signs of SPE. Pregnant women with the above signs required close monitoring during prenatal care.
(1) The Tei index is a novel efficient Doppler index in assessing RV function of pregnant women complicating cardiac disease accompanying PH. And the fluctuation of Tei index might reflect seriousness of the disease. (2) The overload pressure of RV pressure due to PH has significant influence on LV function.
The increased expression of RhoA and Rho kinase may play an important role in the initiation of labor.
The fascia at 1 cm from anterior lateral ischial spine, free of major vessels and nerves, is safe and strong and could be used as a new site for suspension in vaginal prolapse.
High expression of integrin beta3 and OPN in ectopic endometrium of adenomyosis may cause endometriotic lesions; abnormal expression of integrin beta3 and OPN in the endometrium of adenomyosis during the implantation window may contribute to infertility in some patients.
LANSRH is safe and feasible surgical management for cervical cancer at early stage and would improve the recovery of bladder voiding function postoperatively by sparing anatomical nerve.
SLNB procedure in vulvar cancer is feasible and safe. SLN identification appears to be highly accurate for detecting metastases in the ipsilateral inguinal lymphatic basins.
NICD may play a key role in the occurrence and progress of cervical cancer. The mechanism of DAPT inhibited the proliferation and prompted the apoptosis of SiHa and HeLa cells may be due to decreased the formation of NICD.
Serum proteomic profiling could screen out the proteins which had significant variation between pre-surgery and post-surgery serum, of which with M/Z 3981, 4290, and 28 066 may be related with tumor burden, while with M/Z 11 487, 11 529, and 11 678 may be response to surgical stress.
It is effective to use transplantation of keratoprosthesis for the severe corneal blindness eyes. Combination with self auricular cartilage and Tendons capsular reinforcement may reduce the complications and improve the biocompatibility of keratoprosthesis.
The suspension array is a rapid, sensitive and specific method for the identification of the most important species of corneal pathogenic fungi and might be used in the clinical laboratories.
Lymphatic vessels exist in part of alkali burned human corneas and may be estimated through II and BVA indirectly. Lymphatic index may be a convenient and useful clinical index for evaluating lymphangiogenesis in corneal alkali burn.
Compared with the monofocal intraocular lens, the diffractive multifocal intraocular lens could provide a satisfactory recovery of vision function and good visual performance except the slight decrease of the contrast sensitivity.
This method is good for repairing lateral eyelid defect involving 1/3 to 2/3 eyelids and without the tumor invasion of lateral orbit rim. This procedure obtains satisfactory results, especially for simultaneous reconstruction of upper and lower eyelids defects.
No significant difference was found in the prevalence of CVD in boys between two nationalities. The prevalence of CVD in Uygur girls was higher than that in Han girls.
Shotgun strategy can separate and analysis tear proteins effectively, which provide a new method for tear protein component of conjunctivochalasis. The special component in conjunctivochalasis tear show conjunctivochalasis maybe related to cell apoptosis and inflammatory.
Bacteria are the most common pathogens in non-viral microbial eye infection in children. Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Corynebacterium spp. are the most common bacterial pathogens, which are highly susceptible to levofloxacin and rifampicin. Fusarium spp. and Aspergillus spp. are the most common fungal pathogens, which are highly susceptible to natamycin but resistant to fluconazole.
Liposome body is an excellent medicine carrier for the RAPA. RAPA can obviously suppress the growth of CNV. The possibly mechanism is weakening VEGF expression by inhibiting the transcription factor HIF-1alpha.
This study suggests that EGF could induce RCE cell proliferation. EGF up-regulates cyclinD1 and CDK4 and down-regulates p27 in RCE cells. These changes may be the causes for EGF-induced proliferation of RCE.
Various biological factors in corneal stroma are changed when the cornea shows neovascularization. FAP(+) keratocytes are present in the stroma, and the appearance of these cells parallels the growth of vascular endothelial cells. Collagen types I and III are rearranged during the process of angiogenesis.
The growth and survival times of cultured RGC in vitro are affected by the pressure &gt; 40 mm Hg leading to a decreased expression of NF-H indicating a pressure caused mechanism of RGC damage in glaucoma. Down-regulation of NF-H may influence the process growth of RGC.
Overexpression of CTGF in the blebs after trabeculectomy demonstrates that CTGF may play an important role in the process of wound healing. Furthermore, ocular hypertension may be involved in the upregulation of CTGF expression.
Wnt5a contributes to gastric cancer progression by increasing metastatic potential. Wnt5a up-regulates laminin gamma2 to mediate gastric cancer cell aggressiveness.
This study provides new information about the influence of negative affect on central processing of visceral pain. Evidence of right hemispheric dominance during negative emotion indicates this hemisphere is predominately associated with sympathetic activity (arousal, negative affect) and that the right insula and right ACC are integral to subjective awareness of emotion through interoception.
Local thrombolysis may be considered a viable therapeutic option for IBD-related TE. As more cases of local thrombolysis for IBD-related TE accumulate, further recommendations can be made as to the indications for its use.
During CIFN induction therapy, alterations in TSH levels and an increased prevalence of TA and NOSA are quite common, especially in females. Clinically relevant symptoms occur, however, only in a small number (1.4%). Thus, treatment with daily and high-dose CIFN does not appear to increase the incidence of (severe) thyroidal or other autoimmune disorders compared with standard IFN in patients with CHC.
These data do not support the use of sorafenib in patients with LCI Child-Pugh C, and patients with LCI Child-Pugh B should be treated with caution until larger trials provide more safety data and a clinically relevant survival benefit under sorafenib therapy.
Before and after training, health professionals hardly intervene in patients with alcohol or tobacco consumption even we observed higher detection and assist for alcohol risk consumption. It is necessary to examine other barriers to the application of the knowledge gained.
The alterations found in the addict participants were small and non-pathognomonic, though the deficits can be correlated with impact on quality of life and on everyday occupational performance. The neuropsychological exploration showed a certain predictive capacity of abstinence after 6 months (the addict participants with better verbal mnesic performance and greater mental flexibility at the beginning of the treatment seem to benefit more from this). Finally, the results suggest that addicts live in a cognitively poor social environment. It is suggested that drug use increases previous deficits, probably of an educational or environmental origin, that are common to their immediate social context.
BZ-use data and their relationship to time spent on methadone are similar to those of other published studies. Despite the recommendation to use long half-life BZ in patients with substance abuse disorders, it is striking that in the case studied here the most widely prescribed type is alprazolam.
The data suggest that the Spanish version of the DEX is a useful measure for assessing general symptoms of dysexecutive syndrome, and a valid, reliable and adequate screening test for estimating cognitive impairment associated with substance abuse.
Most residual anastomoses in twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome placentas treated with laser are very small and localized near the placental margin. Almost half of cases with residual anastomoses developed twin anemia-polycythemia sequence after laser surgery.
The mortality rate and neurodevelopmental impairment in infants with SVT and AF are low, but the mortality rate in infants with AVB is elevated.
Testing for high-risk human papillomavirus identified all recurrent/residual high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Focusing on women with persistent human papillomavirus types through genotyping substantially increased positive predictive value but at a loss in sensitivity.
Our study showed an overall 2-fold increase in the risk of spontaneous preterm delivery in singleton deliveries subsequent to LEEP treatment, even after adjustment for various potential risk factors.
GBS in the gastrointestinal tract is a risk factor for vaginal GBS. Sexual activity and abnormal vaginal microflora are independent determinants of vaginal GBS colonization.
Higher weight gain predicted impaired glucose tolerance in pregnancy, but not gestational diabetes mellitus.
Two maternal injections with dexamethasone significantly enhanced glucose delivery to the head during acute hypoxemia in the ovine fetus.
Both TV and TA CI cerclage offers select patients with cervical insufficiency improved neonatal survival. The TV placement of a CI has less morbidity than the TA approach with a comparable neonatal survival.
Women with late-onset preeclampsia show a higher risk of perinatal complications if uterine resistance is increased although maternal outcome does not seem to be related to Doppler findings.
EOS was caused mainly by gram-negative bacteria. Prolonged rupture of membranes and amnionitis have an additive effect on EOS with an above 8-fold excess risk when both were present.
After Prolift, surgeons can expect a low rate of recurrent prolapse and mesh exposure. However, pelvic muscle dysfunction and de novo stress incontinence will be encountered postoperatively in a moderate number of women.
Enhanced visualization of the genital epithelial subsurface with cross-polarized light may assist in diagnosing subclinical inflammation in vulvar conditions heretofore characterized as sensory syndromes.
This study quantifies the contribution of cofetal death to cerebral palsy and suggests that cofetal loss makes a similar, although somewhat smaller, contribution to the risk for cerebral palsy in survivors of multiple pregnancies.
Transvaginal sonography appears to be an accurate diagnostic test for adenomyosis.
Under basal conditions, passive diffusion makes a minor and bulk flow a major contribution to intramembranous solute absorption. During high absorption rates, the increase in solute absorption above basal levels appears to be due entirely to bulk flow and is unaffected by lung liquid. The increased bulk flow is consistent with vesicular transcytosis.
Rapid human immunodeficiency virus testing is acceptable, feasible, and provides results far sooner than conventional testing in obstetric outpatient settings.
Increased toxicity in patients warrants careful patient selection.
Avulsion injury is associated with abnormal levator biometry and function.
Our findings support the need for increased education that would include the use of and access to effective primary contraceptive methods in conjunction with EC awareness.
scFv H6 may represent a novel antitumor agent against chemotherapy-resistant ovarian and serous papillary carcinomas and other human malignancies that overexpress CLDN3.
MaCL with anti-beta-2 activity that was obtained from patients with APS may interfere in the activation of the contact complex during pregnancy.
Integrated HPV16 in combination with viral load is a predictive indicator for tumor progression in early invasive stage but not in preinvasive and advanced invasive stage.
The finding of microcephaly at birth in nonsyndromic CHD provides strong evidence in support of intrauterine hypoxic central nervous system damage. Potential changes in prenatal management including aggressive antepartum surveillance and earlier delivery warrant urgent consideration.
Our data underline the need for more intensive investigation of genetic admixture in African Americans to identify novel susceptibility genes of PTD.
Down syndrome screening evolved from 2001-2007, with an increasing emphasis on first-trimester screening. With more efficacious screening, the number of invasive procedures has declined.
Congenital hypothyroidism is significantly and independently associated with reduced variability in FHR tracing patterns.
In the United States, MM pairs are at greater risk for PTB. Race and ethnicity modulate sex effects. Further studies are needed to understand potential mechanisms.
A healthful diet and greater physical activity are associated with reduced risk for excessive GWG.
Fetuses with CHD are more likely to show abnormal FHR patterns than are control fetuses. We suggest that cardiac abnormalities are associated with abnormalities in FHR patterns.
Large HC and prolonged second stage duration are risk factors in LAM trauma. Elective cesarean delivery may prevent LAM trauma.
Coefficients that allow determination of the customized growth potential, individually adjusted and excluding known pathological factors, have been derived. Babies of obese mothers have an increased risk of not reaching their fetal growth potential.
SGA defined by customized growth potential improves the differentiation between physiologically and pathologically small babies.
Current pregnancy weight gain recommendations include weight gain ranges that are associated with increased risk of LGA and macrosomia.
Associations between low PWG and SGA varied little by definition of SGA and contributed to only a small proportion of term SGA infants.
Increased adhesion development and a longer time to delivery were found with each subsequent CS.
Operative laparoscopy is a safe and effective alternative to laparotomy for the placement of abdominal cerclage.
Compared with LRs, the NN was slightly better in predicting CD and was similar for predicting vaginal delivery in nulliparas with term singletons.
The porcine model is adequate for teaching some ancillary gynecologic oncology surgical procedures and is inadequate for others.
The application of intermittent orthodontic forces of 225 cN for 8 weeks (14 days of force application, 3 days of rest, then 4 days of force application repeated for 6 weeks) caused less root resorption than continuous forces of 225 cN for 8 weeks. Although it might not be clinically practical, compared with continuous forces, intermittent forces might be a safer method to prevent significant root resorption. This regimen, however, could compromise the efficiency of tooth movement.
GERD symptoms were observed more often in patients with skeletal Class III malocclusion than in normal subjects as determined by the questionnaires.
The forces applied were mostly too high when compared with those stated in the literature as ideal. In addition to thickness, the thermoforming process influences the magnitude of the force delivered by a thermoformed appliance.
Significant effects of arch model (P = 0.0000) and wire types (P = 0.0000) were found. The interaction term between the tested factors was not significant (P = 0.1581) (2-way ANOVA and Tukey test). Convex models resulted in significantly higher frictional forces (1015-1653 g) than flat models (680-1270 g) (P &lt;0.05). In the flat model, significantly lower frictional forces were obtained with wire types 1 (679 g) and 3 (1010 g) than with types 2 (1146 g) and 4 (1270 g) (P &lt;0.05). In the convex model, the lowest friction was obtained with wire types 1 (1015 g) and 3 (1142 g) (P &gt;0.05). Type 1 wire tended to create the least overall friction in both flat and convex dental arch simulation models.
The accuracy of the software for space analysis evaluation on digital models is clinically acceptable and reproducible when compared with traditional plaster study model analyses.
CBCT allows for clinically accurate and reliable 3-dimensional linear measurements of the craniofacial complex. Moreover, skull orientation during CBCT scanning does not affect the accuracy or the reliability of these measurements.
Dental measurements from CBCT volumes can be used for quantitative analysis. With the CBCT images, we found a small systematic error, which became statistically significant only when combining several measurements. An adjustment for this error allows for improved accuracy.
Titanium surgical miniscrews can be satisfactorily used as orthodontic anchorage. Controlling some aspects of the surgical protocol could reduce the failure rate.
No statistically significant sex- or side-specific mandibular asymmetry was found among the 3 groups. Condylar asymmetry index values were significantly high compared with the 3% threshold value in each of the 3 groups, but comparisons between groups were not statistically significant.
During the Herbst treatment period, there was an association between bite jumping and movement of the mandibular incisors: the greater the bite jumping, the larger the intrusion, protrusion, and proclination of teeth. During the MB treatment period, relapsing incisor tooth movements occurred that were independent of the original amount of bite jumping.
A profile photograph can show with high probability a skeletal Class III discrepancy and might be useful for diagnosis during the initial consultation.
Longitudinal data are necessary to confirm the usefulness of this technique in predicting the timing, the intensity, and the end of the growth spurt.
There were no differences in arch dimensions after 1-phase or 2-phase treatment of Class II malocclusion.
Early histologic changes in response to the clear plastic appliance were intrusion and distal tipping despite the intended mesial movement. In this rat model, the observed histologic changes were subject to the direction and magnitude of forces generated by the clear aligner.
For bond strength studies, storage media can have an effect on bond strength results. Dry, formalin, and ethanol storage should be avoided. Water, isotonic saline solution, and chloramine T storage produced comparable bond strengths. Rinsing or not rinsing had no effect on bond strength with these storage media.
The rate of canine cusp retraction was greater during the second than the first 4 weeks. The mandibular canines were retracted by uncontrolled tipping whereas the maxillary canines were retracted by controlled tipping.
Our results suggest that this method is a valid and reproducible assessment of treatment outcomes for growing subjects. This technique can be used to identify maxillary and mandibular positional changes and bone remodeling relative to the anterior cranial fossa.
The use of Invisalign appliances did not seem to induce estrogenic effects under the conditions of this experiment.
Bone depth and cortical bone thickness of the palate were most favorable for temporary anchorage device placement at the level of the first and second premolars. This information could aid clinicians in choosing suitable palatal placement sites for orthodontic mini-implants.
LVO was shown to be a useful and efficient tool in the learning process and might assist the learning of cephalometry.
In patients with CF, the intensity of systemic inflammation does not account significantly for the variance of FFM and diaphragm or limb muscle strength and bulk. Training of the diaphragm in CF occurs despite the presence of systemic inflammation.
Our results indicate that IPF-AEx is characterized by enhanced epithelial injury and proliferation, as reflected by increases in CCNA2 and alpha-defensins and apoptosis of epithelium. The concomitant increase in alpha-defensins in the peripheral blood and lungs may suggest their use as biomarkers for this disorder.
These data support the need for full evaluation in infancy and argue for new treatment strategies, especially those targeting neutrophilic inflammation, if the promise of NBS for CF is to be realized.
Adults with a history of very low birth weight or moderately low birth weight were at increased risk of hospitalization for respiratory illness.
These studies suggest a compensatory reduction in pulmonary surface tension that attenuates the effect of lung parenchymal remodeling on lung mechanics, hence work of breathing.
TGF-beta1 induces EMT in a Smad3-dependent manner in primary AECs. However, in asthmatic-derived ALI-AEC cultures, the number of cells undergoing EMT is greater. These findings support the hypothesis that epithelial repair in asthmatic airways is dysregulated.
HNP or PMN alone exert antimicrobial ability, which was lost as a result of their interaction. These effects of HNP may help explain the clinical paradox seen in patients with inflammatory lung diseases, suggesting HNP as a novel target for clinical therapy.
Severe COPD was associated with lower cognitive performance on standardized measurement over time.
Our findings indicate that clonal expansion of P. aeruginosa strains during microevolution within CF lungs leads to populations with altered but not reduced virulence. These P. aeruginosa clones with adapted virulence play a critical role in the pathogenesis of chronic infections and may serve to define virulence determinants as targets for novel therapies.
Both cigarette smoking and betel quid chewing are independent risk factors for the development of calcium urolithiasis. The risk effect is even strengthened when subjects have both habits. These findings suggest users can greatly reduce the risk of calcium urolithiasis if they quit these two habits.
Risk of falling may be better analyzed using regression models for recurrent events. These results have important implications for the collection and analysis of fall outcome data.
Addressing safety concerns, educating parents about the age-specific risk of HPV infection, and promoting strong physician recommendation for vaccination may be the most useful targets for future interventions to increase HPV vaccine utilization.
Risk of lung cancer increased as the number of deletion variants increased for GSTM1, although the associations were nonsignificant. Discriminating between the wild-type, hemizygous, and homozygous deletion GSTM1 genotypes permitted a more precise characterization of the associations between GSTM1 deletion variants and lung cancer.
This analysis shows that cadmium exposure is associated with high prevalence of elevated CRP and fibrinogen. Additional study will be required to determine whether the increased risk derives from cadmium per se or from the environmental circumstances responsible for acquiring the contamination, e.g., cigarette smoking.
Because HCV-related deaths among Texas male prisoners are high and increasing, particularly among Hispanics, targeted prevention, screening, and treatment of HCV infections should be among the priorities of U.S. correctional healthcare systems.
Energy intake is underreported on the first 24HR. Three 24HRs appear optimal for estimating energy intake.
Collective river water intake among relatives was likely and predominantly responsible for familial KBD aggregation in southwestern China.
To maximize the impact of behavioral interventions, risk-reduction programs must adjust for social and cultural differences within the Hispanic-American population.
The findings support an equivalent five-factor structure across the four race/ethnicity subpopulations studied. Based on these data, it can be concluded that children across the four race/ethnicity groups studied interpreted items in a similar manner regardless of their race/ethnicity.
Iron and alumino-silicate clay, major components of luvisols, may increase cKS risk, but formal investigation and consideration of other soil types and exposures are needed.
Considering the profound differences between the structure of balangeroite and amphiboles, previous results and observations on the poor ecopersistence of balangeroite, and the present data, we conclude that balangeroite traces may contribute to the overall toxicity of the airborne fibres in Balangero, but may not be compared to tremolite nor considered the sole responsible for the excess of mesothelioma found in Balangero.
The survey found that the measures used to control exposure to MbOCA could be improved. Although air levels of MbOCA were generally low, there was evidence of spread of surface contamination and poor maintenance of controls such as local exhaust ventilation. A BMGV based on the 90th percentile of data from workplaces with good control would be less than the 90% value of 8.6 micromol mol(-1) creatinine found in this study and suggests that the current BMGV of 15 micromol mol(-1) creatinine is no longer acting as a stimulus to reduce exposure. The metabolites of isocyanates found in urine samples in this study could arise from inhalation exposure to isocyanates or from dermal exposure to either isocyanates or their diamine breakdown product and need further investigation.
On the basis of the tabulated outcomes, the sample size requirement is much more dominant than the number of repeated measurements for a group exposure comparison. Thus, in this case, recruiting more workers with fewer repeated measurements may be more economical than the opposite approach. For testing the presence of a long-term exposure trend, the sample size required decreases substantially with the number of repeated measurements. Also, equally spaced sampling times would be optimal because the effect of between-worker variance is algebraically cancelled out in sample size calculations.
RVR is a strong predictor of SVR (PPV&gt;96%) and failure to achieve EVR is a strong predictor of non-SVR (NPV&gt;75%), independent of patients' pretreatment status. Added to baseline characteristics, RVR increased the accuracy to predict SVR. The combination of RVR and EVR provided complementary information, and thus provides a key opportunity to individualize treatment and improve the benefit/risk ratio of therapy.
Ribavirin administration might increase the efficacy of interferon therapy for patients with chronic hepatitis C by stimulating the host immune system and promoting HCV gene mutation.
Prevalence of primary resistance in a sample of ART-naive clade C HIV-1-infected individuals in South Africa was low during the study period. Patients failing first-line ART most often developed resistance to NNRTIs and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, the two drug classes used in first-line therapy. Viral load monitoring in this setting is crucial and individual genotypes in those failing first-line therapy should be considered.
Our results suggest that prosultiamine has the potential to be a new therapeutic tool that targets HTLV-I-infected cells in HAM/TSP.
Both HIV-1 and non-HIV-1-related factors are associated with abnormal levels of proteinuria and identify those who are at a greater risk of worse clinical outcomes. Several of these factors are differentially associated with lower and higher proteinuria thresholds.
The segregation into clusters suggested frequent forward transmission events in patients infected with HIV-1 subtype B, including the possibility of transmission of drug-resistant isolates. These findings warrant increasing prevention efforts and serological screening in the at-risk populations.
Although most patients showed virological breakthrough because of the well known rtA181V/T and rtN236T substitutions, more complex patterns were also found. ADV monotherapy, dose reduction and suboptimal virological response after 48 weeks of therapy were significantly associated with ADV resistance.
Our findings will help clinicians recognize patients who require additional support for retention in care, including younger patients, injection drug users, people of sub-Saharan African origin, patients who are healthier at enrolment and patients who do not adhere to HAART during follow-up.
Cirrhosis is an important moderator of SVR, accounting for different patterns of treatment failure in patients infected with different genotypes.
One-year clevudine therapy is effective for suppressing serum HBV DNA level and for normalization of ALT level. Viral breakthrough associated with the rtM204I mutation in the HBV polymerase gene occurs during long-term clevudine treatment.
These results suggested that TVR-based regimens for chronic HCV infection will lead to an early and more rapid viral decrease that could potentially result in higher sustained viral response rates as well as offer the potential for a reduced duration of treatment.
The development of ENF resistance in vivo is a concerted coevolutionary process whereby HR1 mutations are selected within env variants that permit their optimal phenotypic expression.
This study suggests that the pharmacokinetics of lopinavir after twice-daily and once-daily dosing are similar, with no observable difference in tolerability, in this group of patients between 5 and 15 years old.
REM-specific SDB could be considered an initial stage of SAHS that mainly affects obese women with mild to moderate sleep disorders, and that does not differ from non-REM-specific SDB in terms of clinical presentation, sleep architecture, or cardiovascular comorbidity.
We believe that exploratory EVT is clearly better than computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging for detecting chest wall invasion. In addition to correctly staging a tumor as T3 because of chest wall invasion, the technique can also help decide the best surgical approach in each case.
Complications were responsible for short-term mortality, while age of the recipient was the most important factor in determining long-term survival. Mortality was higher in single-lung transplant recipients compared to double-lung transplant recipients.
The measurement of breathing pattern by EIT in patients with COPD requires the use of a previously calculated calibration equation that incorporates not only individual anthropometric characteristics but gas exchange parameters as well.
Lack of feedforward activation of selected trunk musculature in patients with MLBP may result in a period of inefficient muscular stabilization. Activation timing was more impaired in the instability than the noninstability MLBP subgroup. Training specifically for recruitment timing may be an important component of the rehabilitation program.
Increased surface resistance decreases self-selected velocity and increases peak forces. Increased weight decreases self-selected velocity and increases forces. Anterior axle positions decrease forces, more so on high carpet. The effects of weight and axle position are independent. The greatest reductions in peak forces occur in lighter chairs with anterior axle positions.
MTBI, even in the chronic phase years postinjury, is not a benign condition. It is associated with increased rates of headaches, sleep problems, and memory difficulties. Furthermore, it can complicate or prolong recovery from preexisting or comorbid conditions such as PTSD. Similarly, PTSD is a potent cocontributor to physical, cognitive, and emotional symptoms.
Results from this study and previous controlled trials preclude at present the use of salbutamol as routine treatment for FSHD, even if we cannot exclude improvement from anabolic effects with a longer duration of treatment.
PEMF at this dosimetry was noneffective in reducing NP. However neurobiological effects on ENFD, PGIC and reduced itching scores suggest future studies are indicated with higher dosimetry (3000-5000 G), longer duration of exposure, and larger biopsy cohort.
The diabetes-related conditions identified as tier comorbidities under the prospective payment system are significant predictors of stroke rehabilitation outcomes, but these relationships are moderated by patient age.
Malingering is present in a sizable minority of patients with pain seen for potentially compensable injuries. However, not all excess pain-related disability is a result of malingering. It is important not to diagnose malingering reflexively on the basis of limited or unreliable findings. A diagnosis of malingering should be explicitly based on a formal diagnostic system.
Osteopenia and osteoporosis are very common in adults with disability participating in rehabilitation, compared with the general young adult population. Duration since onset of disability and mobility status are independent predictors of BMD at the hip. Bone health monitoring should form part of the long-term follow-up in adults with newly acquired disabilities.
These limitations observed in joint laxity, postural control, muscle strength, and perceived function provide evidence that patients with ankle OA display a number of characteristics that affect joint stability and overall function. These identified impairments necessitate the need for rehabilitation and exercise programs to be developed to help improve joint stability and function in patients with ankle OA.
The lack of significant differences in mechanical laxity over an 8-week period suggests that natural recovery of laxity takes longer than 8 weeks. Further research needs to be conducted to examine how long this laxity persists and the role ankle rehabilitation plays in mechanical stability restoration.
COX-2 inhibitors may have been prescribed as substitutes for nsNSAIDs initially, but nsNSAID prescriptions returned to prior levels by 2005 as COX-2 inhibitor prescriptions declined. An increase in nonnarcotic analgesic prescribing in 2005 may have been caused by a class effect concern for NSAIDs. Prescribing of opiate analgesics and adjuvant analgesics increased over the study period, although apparently not in substitution for NSAIDs.
Wrist orthoses affected the muscle activities in the upper limbs of healthy adults who were using a computer. Electromyographic activity increased in the trapezius when the subjects used either type of orthosis, and the same pattern was observed in the extensor carpi ulnaris when the subjects used the mouse. The flexor digitorum superficialis presented an increase in activity only when the subjects worked with the mouse and used a custom-made splint.
Acute fatigue of the hip abductors did not result in a decreased control of balance in healthy young or older women without fall history. Despite considerable changes in movement strategies used to complete the postfatigue tests of balance, quantitative measures of balance did not decrease.
Our results showed that the evaluation of COP data is a reliable method of investigating the development of sitting postural control. The present study emphasizes the need for establishing COP reliability before using it as a method of examining intervention progress directed at improving the sitting postural abilities in infants with motor developmental delays.
Hippotherapy improves trunk/head stability and UE reaching/targeting. These skills form the foundation for many functional tasks. Changes are maintained after the intervention ceases providing a skill foundation for functional tasks that may also enhance occupational performance and participation.
IPC practice in rehabilitation care is supported by clinical, cultural, and organizational factors. This understanding of daily IPC work may guide initiatives to promote IPC in other clinical team settings.
Patients' socioeconomic status and family structure was found to influence LOS and should be considered in allocating resources and determining treatment need. The extent of motor function of patients at admission is an important factor influencing rehabilitation LOS and is a useful tool for facilitating rehabilitation resource planning for stroke patients.
The BBS captures a significant amount of information about balance recovery in persons with SCI and may be a good foundation for a balance tool. However, the utility of BBS items may be dependent on a patient's level of recovery. A dynamic balance instrument for the SCI population may be needed.
Phase-dependent regulation of reflex excitability, essential to normal locomotion, coordinated by pre- and postsynaptic inhibitory processes (convergent action of descending and segmental inputs onto spinal circuits) is impaired post-SCI. Paired reflex depression provides a quantitative assay of inhibitory processes contributing to phase-dependent changes in reflex excitability. Because bicycle training normalized reflex depression, we propose that bicycling may have a potential role in walking rehabilitation, and future studies should examine the long-term effects on subclinical measures of reflex activity and its relationship to functional outcomes.
The study provided first evidence for reliability of the classification system. Further research is needed to confirm these results and to test the reliability of other language versions.
The size of motor units and firing rates used to achieve a given force changes with age, particularly after middle age. Whether these changes precede, follow, or occur concurrent to age-related modifications in muscle structure and contractile properties or sarcopenia is not known.
RBBB may be a useful initial screening test for PE complicating chronic SCI. PE, often recurrent and sometimes fatal, is prevalent in chronic SCI.
No radiological impact was detected after iodine therapy with 100-150 mCi on an out-patient basis followed by experienced professionals.
GIPR and LHCGR overexpression were not identified in the studied cases, thus suggesting that this molecular mechanism is not involved in adrenocortical hyperplasia in our patients.
Arterial hypertension in non-obese women is associated with insulin resistance, central fat distribution and higher leptin levels.
DM1 duration and poor glycemic control were significantly associated with periodontal disturbances suggesting higher susceptibility of this population in developing DP.
The method of BMI showed little sensitivity to BC changes in patients with T1D. Appropriated methods for the assessment of BC should be used to classify the NS of this population.
The genetic markers that best characterized and discriminated diabetic and non-diabetic individuals were the HLA DQA1 and DQB1.alleles.
The authors present the first reports of computed tomographic colonography in the screening of colorectal polyps in acromegalic patients. In this study, computed tomographic colonography was performed without complications and a complete and safe colorectal evaluation was possible in all acromegalic patients. Moreover, computed tomographic colonography presented good sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for the identification of acromegalic patients with polyps of any size and better results in the diagnosis of large polyps, when they were compared to small polypoid lesions.
There is a positive association between H. pylori infection and colonic adenomas. This association is more evident in women, especially for tubular adenomas and distal colonic location.
The correlation between endoscopic and histological findings was high. The agreement between the initial histologic evaluation and slides review was not satisfactory. The chance of subjects with normal ileoscopy with abdominal pain and/or chronic diarrhea, showing histological alterations was higher in relation to the asymptomatic ones or with other symptoms, although the clinical importance of this datum was not evaluated.
The morphometric characteristics of colonoscopy images allowing the observer to compare differences between hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps and colorectal carcinoma lesions. Digital morphometric studies are feasible like the present study shows. This can help the colonoscopist in clinical decisions. A software with morphometric measures can apply and will permit the digital morphometric analysis. The data generated from the application of software, can provide valuable points in differentiation of various lesions, guiding the conduct clinical, already during the endoscopic procedure. Morphometric analysis is more an instance of decision to the colonoscopist and it has important value not for being subjective, but for being objective, since it generates digits of its measures. In these aspects, and among different characteristics, the measure of the area showed to be the most important measure in the differential aspect. Different lesions have different patterns of morphometric measures and theses patterns can be obtained from the study of the characteristics in databases. The endoscopic removal of adenomatous polyps (polypectomy), or a more detailed study of the neoplastic lesions for helping the decision if endoscopic removal (mucosectomy) or surgical resection, and a conservative position in hyperplastic lesions, are proceedings that morphometrics, with another parameters, can help to decide.
Both methods, either the MBI/FICE system or the use of indigo carmine dye with magnification, achieved a high accuracy for the differential diagnosis between neoplastic and non-neoplastic colorectal lesions.
The most common site was the small intestine and 80% had a malignant potential justifying the high recurrence observed. No significant correlation was found between p53 and overall outcome of the patients. In group I patients, the evaluation Ki67LI may be a marker of prognosis. The positivity of both markers is higher among the patients with worst prognosis than in the others.
Preoperative progressive pneumoperitoneum is a safe and easy executed procedure, which simplifies surgery and reduces post-operative respiratory and cardiovascular complications. It is indicated for patients with hernias that have lost the right of domain in the abdominal cavity.
Goblet cells and columnar blue cells have similar immunohistochemical staining patterns for cytokeratins 7 and 20 in patients with endoscopic evidence of Barrett's esophagus.
Coinfected patients HCV/HIV genotype 1 treated with PEG+RBV presented 1.9 more chance to obtain sustained virological response than those treated with IFN+RBV, however without statistical significance.
Frequent early-onset constipation was confirmed. Fair agreement between recalled and recorded constipation by the two used criteria indicates that recalled data are quite reliable to detect constipation.
Successful pregnancies are the rule after liver transplantation. A carefully monitoring by an experience multidisciplinary team increases the chances of favorable maternofetal outcome.
Most people who live within the context of modernity move across a mixture of different social, spiritual and cultural 'worlds'. By projecting particular and negative meanings onto Indigenous people and their journey of identity, non-Indigenous people diminish the value of Indigenous energies and initiatives in attempting to cope with life's diverse pressures and expectations. The perpetuation of such attitudes serves to undermine the efforts that Indigenous people make to engage modernity while at the same time attempting to maintain values that are of critical importance for their health and wellbeing. Consequently, non-Indigenous people can end up diminishing the importance of their own life transitions.
Decolonization requires every Australian to examine the impact colonization has upon their past and present in order to formulate a future that does not reinstate the past. To take these steps requires a balance of histories, informing our current political and social context, critical reflexive practice and open communication with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
Adopting evidence-informed principles of family and community healing developed internationally in disaster situations may provide helpful ways of conceptualizing and responding in a coordinated way to mental health and wellbeing issues for Indigenous people within Australia.
I propose restorative educational interventions for young Indigenous children that seek to engage them with ancestral memory, cultural narratives, and a sense of purpose so that healing from historically transmitted trauma may be initiated and a grounded sense of subjectivity restored.
Sport can provide for young Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men a culturally 'safe' place where important values across generations are developed and sustained.
The first step toward addressing the marked social and mental health problems for Indigenous people in custody is to systematically identify the nature and extent of these problems.
Main challenges included (i) appropriateness of tests and assessment processes, (ii) high rates of substance abuse and other illness in the control group and (iii) high attrition rates. The importance of assessing cognition appropriately is highlighted by a lack of information regarding mental health issues in Indigenous populations.
Ethical approaches to research among Aboriginal communities include, but extend well beyond, the principle of avoiding harm. A comprehensive approach to ethical research requires significant ongoing expenditure of effort and resources with implications for project development, management and funding.
One of the key learnings to emerge in this project so far is that empowerment through partnership becomes possible when there is a concerted effort to strengthen grassroots community organizations. These include social health teams and men's and women's groups that can engage local people in an action orientation.
PAR frameworks provide a useful tool for facilitating and sustaining empowerment outcomes. They can be used to support the transfer of knowledge and skills from one Aboriginal community group to another.
A combination of the strengths of different approaches is in fact an empowering, dialectical view that can be achieved by considering Aboriginal people not as children in need, but as capable and efficacious individuals.
Emergent themes included: Initial reticence by community members followed by positive experiences; the value of empowerment frameworks in research; building trust between community and university researchers; capacity building, management, and workloads; and community politics, misunderstandings and wealth disparity. The paper recommends strategies for successful research collaborations and identifies challenges to research collaborations.
The Policy provides a strong framework guiding the development of Aboriginal mental health and wellbeing programs throughout NSW Mental Health Services. However, the effectiveness of the Policy will be determined by the success of its implementation. The NSW Aboriginal Mental Health Workforce Training Program will support implementation of the Policy by growing an Aboriginal mental health workforce in NSW.
The future direction for the Tribunal in this strategy will be influenced by more formal evaluation of the outcomes and by further development of a model for the provision of cultural advice.
This form of community engagement may contribute to destigmatization of mental illness in Indigenous communities, increased engagement between these communities and mental health service providers, and increased cohesiveness and morale of these communities.
Members of the Indigenous community of Kalgoorlie have found benefit through consultation and treatment involving the use of acupuncture, dietary and lifestyle counselling. In addition, Indigenous persons have found benefit in an alternative means of accessing police services outside of a typical police environment.
A Fellowship in Indigenous mental health can offer a variety of experiences for the psychiatry trainee, including clinical work, research and teaching. The planning and collaboration with Aboriginal health organizations, key clinicians and Ethics committees provides a unique opportunity to learn invaluable communication and consultancy skills.
This paper describes the process of implementation of the 2004 Indigenous Mental Health Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists (RANZCP) Training By-Laws within Victoria. It is likely that the challenges of ensuring access to this training experience, within the Victorian RANZCP Training Program, have been experienced to varying degrees within other Australian training programs. The vertical integration of Indigenous health curriculum extends work being done in all undergraduate medical schools in Australia and New Zealand, and which the Australian Medical Council have incorporated into their accreditation of medical schools.
Use of tikanga Mori, in this case, whakatauak, was helpful in developing future planning for He Kakano. This suggests that use of tikanga may be beneficial in other settings where planning for sustainable Mori responsive services is undertaken. Further work in this area is likely to benefit service development, strategic planning, workforce development and have an impact on improving health outcomes for Mori.
Obstacles met during the course of this research project highlight the importance of developing methodologies able to capture the rich and specific outcomes of traditional activities in an Aboriginal context.
This study found that unsafe environmental conditions in the health workplace and limited staff knowledge contributed to workplace stress. Staff identified as vital strategies to manage aggressive or potentially aggressive incidents effectively and ensure staff and client safety. Managers, policy makers and government officials need awareness of the threats to healthy workforces. Tools to guide practice and staff education were implemented to address the identified problems.
MHFA training is effective in enhancing the mental health knowledge and skills of AEAs. The agents, who are a main line of contact of farmers, are able to recognize mental disorders of people and help them appropriately. They are more willing to work with stigmatized people and know who to refer people to for help.
Issues of cost, distance and disruption to services have meant that, until now, it has been very difficult to provide really effective training in evidence-based therapies (in the main, CBT) for Australian rural and remote health professionals. The recent development of online CBT training provides new opportunities. Online training, supplemented by regular supervision, can fulfil many of the functions of face-to-face training at significantly reduced cost. While face-to-face residential workshops will still be necessary to embed new skills, we estimate that online training can reduce the face-to-face time required by at least 50%.
The new mental health service at Atoifi is taking steps to incorporate sociocultural beliefs, including of people possessed by buru, into routine practice. This provides a greater potential to support prevention, treatment and recovery journeys to advance the community's social, emotional and spiritual wellbeing.
The theatre-for-development literature does not yet clearly articulate how specific theatre forms may be more or less efficacious in terms of influencing health-related behaviour across cultural contexts. More extensive research into this question will yield significant benefits in terms of focusing practice culturally.
Research on cultural intelligence, performance and creativity provides promising new models for capacity building in communities. These approaches constitute a synthesis of previous research on cultural competency and provide new avenues for innovative social action through intercultural exchange.
Arising from this work, the All Fruits Theory (AFT) argues that mixing people of diverse consciousness, in contexts of trust and safety with each other, can lead to enriching personal acknowledgement and a sense of belonging. By sharing stories, joining celebratory activities, it is possible to generate interactive rhythmical ritual cycles of companionship, celebration, communion and contemplation. The project thus stimulated purposeful motivation and intention to engage in new activities. Individual and group social and emotional wellbeing were enhanced by participating. The author argues that these results show that, just as biodiversity is essential for ecological sustainability, 'onto-diversity' (i.e. valuing diverse ways of being and knowing) is what is needed in rehabilitation settings. When applied across cultures, ethnicity, gender, class and capability differences, these wiser ways of knowing can lead to more sustainable ways of being (i.e. what this author calls 'onto-diversity for suss-tainability', playing on the modern slang term for 'sussing things out'--meaning gaining better understanding of what's really going on).
Through positive choice, a consumer can break the cycle of admission and realize self-empowerment, which can lead to a full and complete life.
The data obtained demonstrate involvement of the translation elongation factor eEF1B in modulating the functions of translation termination factors and suggest its possible role in GDP for GTP exchange on eRF3.
Most TB patients took over a month to reach a DOTS facility after symptoms appeared and had consulted a number of providers. Their income and advice from household members and friends were factors that influenced their care seeking behavior most.
Most commonly used immunosuppressive drugs do not seem to increase overall or cancer mortality. Our results suggesting that tumour necrosis factor inhibitors might increase mortality are less robust than the other findings; additional evidence is needed.
These results show, for the first time, that melatonin radical is able to oxidize GSH.
We propose that this new property of melatonin could explain or be related to the recently reported pro-oxidant activities of melatonin.
End-tagging, without need for post-peptide synthesis modification, may be employed to enhance AMP potency against P. aeruginosa at maintained limited toxicity.
These results point to a novel paradigm in which electrical and mechanical effects promoted by chemicals which preferentially alter the electrostatics of the membrane, may be employed to help distinguish among various pore-formation mechanisms of membrane-permeabilizing peptides.
The observed changes in response to external stimuli suggest that the activity of ASK neurons may impact stimulus-evoked worm behavior. The stimulus-ON/activity-OFF properties of ASK neurons are similar to those of vertebrate retinal photoreceptors.
Analysis of sensory-motor transformation pathways based on the activity and structure of neuronal circuits is an important goal in neurobiology and is practical in C. elegans. Our study provides insights into the mechanism of such transformation in the animal.
This study demonstrates that Neu2 enzyme degradation occurs in atrophic myotubes via macroautophagy and independently of proteasome activation.
Lysozyme nitration enhances the affinity of the modified enzyme for degradation by the proteasome, thereby increasing its susceptibility to proteolysis.
Increased levels of peroxynitrite have been detected in tissues of ethanol-fed animals. The damaging effects from excessive peroxynitrite in the cell increase hepatotoxicity and cellular death by protein modification due to nitration. Cellular defenses against such changes include enhanced proteolysis by the proteasome in order to maintain protein quality control.
These data, taken together, strongly suggest that the verdoheme formation pathway originates from compound I rather than from compound II.
The autocatalytic verdoheme formation is likely to occur in vivo.
Because it was shown that only the kappa opioid receptor gene is expressed in CD3+ T cells in the opioid receptor family, the present study suggests that morphine induces DNA damage through the action on the kappa opioid receptor, which leads to immune suppression by activation of P53-mediated signal transduction.
These inspiring findings would provide new molecular basis for further understanding cell death mechanisms of the Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA)-related lectins in future cancer investigations.
PLE exerts its antifungal activity through mitochondrial dysfunction-induced ROS accumulation in C. albicans.
The effect of PLE on the mitochondria function in C. albicans was assayed for the first time. These results would conduce to elucidate its underlying antifungal mechanism.
This technology was useful to transfection of cells. Optimal transfection conditions were determined to be between 75 and 100 psi of helium pressure, 1.0 to 1.6 mum gold particle size and 0.5 mg of gold particle amount with a loading ratio of 4 microg DNA/mg gold particles.
These findings will be useful in the design of gene gun device, and bring further improvements to the in vitro and in vivo transfection studies including gene therapy and vaccination.
This study presents a complete structural and thermodynamic profile of coralyne interaction to four single stranded RNA polymers.
The study for the first time elucidates the base specificity of coralyne-RNA complexation at the single stranded level.
Depressed patients with SAD demonstrate ERG changes in the winter compared with healthy comparison subjects with lower rod retinal sensitivity and lower cone maximal amplitude. These changes normalized following 4 weeks of light therapy and during the summer, suggesting that ERG changes are state markers for SAD.
Gyrification index may be sensitive to atrophy, as well as being a neurodevelopmental measure. While the loss of prefrontal gyrification over time is not accelerated in bipolar disorder, a greater rate of loss is associated with the possession of one or more BDNF met alleles.
EPO is induced by ECS and independently exhibits antidepressant-like efficacy in the forced swim and NIH tests. EPO regulates the expression of genes implicated in antidepressant action and appears to be a candidate molecule for further testing in neuropsychiatry.
We propose a role for CSF IL-6 in the symptomatology of suicidal behavior, possibly through mechanisms involving alterations of dopamine and serotonin metabolism.
These results indicate that the met158 allele is associated with increased gray matter volume and heightened reactivity during emotional processing within the limbic system in children as young as 10 to 12 years of age. These findings are consistent with the notion that genetic factors affect brain function to moderate vulnerability to affective psychopathology from childhood.
Higher 5-HT1A BP(F) in bipolar depressed males suggests higher raphe autoreceptor binding, potentially causing less serotonin release and compensatory upregulation of forebrain postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. The raphe effect may be partly genetic. No difference in 5-HT1A BP(F) between BD and control females may reflect greater effect of prior antidepressant exposure in BD females.
These results provide further evidence of a role for serotonergic transmission in the modulation of cortical excitability. Differential effects on the measures under study suggest a pattern of prioritization in bioamine regulation of cortical inhibition.
Results indicate that childhood adversity in humans is associated with blunted subjective responses to reward-predicting cues as well as dysfunction in left basal ganglia regions implicated in reward-related learning and motivation. This dysfunction might serve as a diathesis that contributes to the multiple negative outcomes and psychopathologies associated with childhood adversity. The findings suggest that interventions that target motivation and goal-directed action might be useful for reducing the negative consequences of childhood adversity.
This is the first study to demonstrate the benefit of adding three noninvasive circadian-related interventions to SD in medicated patients to accelerate and sustain antidepressant responses and provides a strategy for the safe, fast-acting, and sustainable treatment of BPD.
In depressed older adults relative to control subjects, the cerebral metabolic response to citalopram is blunted in cortico-cortical and cortico-limbic pathways and increased in the left hemisphere (greater decrease interiorly and increases posteriorly). These findings suggest both blunted and compensatory cerebral metabolic responses to citalopram in depressed older adults.
These results suggest that further investigation is warranted to determine potential reversibility and/or prognosis in LLD.
Significant white matter tract alterations in adolescents with BD were observed in regions involved in emotional, behavioral, and cognitive regulation. These results suggest that alterations in white matter are present early in the course of disease in familial BD.
Under catecholamine depletion the RMDD subjects were robustly differentiated from control subjects by development of performance deficits on a reward processing task. These performance deficits correlated directly with the return of depressive symptoms after AMPT administration. The sensitivity of central reward processing systems to reductions in brain catecholamine levels thus seems to represent a trait-like marker in MDD.
These studies highlight a crucial role for decreased VGLUT1 in the forebrain as a biological mediator of increased vulnerability to chronic mild stress.
Human Freud-2 binds to the 5-HT1A DRE and represses the human 5-HT1A receptor gene to regulate its expression in non-serotonergic cells and neurons.
Acute ischemic injury to the immature femoral head induced severe hypoxia and cell death in the bony epiphysis and the deep layer of the epiphyseal cartilage. Viable chondrocytes in the superficial layer of the epiphyseal cartilage showed HIF-1alpha activation and VEGF upregulation with subsequent revascularization occurring in the cartilage.
These data suggest that approximately one out of 4 postmenopausal women in Vietnam have a radiographic vertebral fracture, and this prevalence is as common as in Caucasian populations. The number of women needed to screen to identify one vertebral fracture is about 4 to 5, which seems to be cost-effective.
During adult life, estrogens mediate endosteal bone apposition and volumetric bone density, without marked influence on periosteal bone apposition. The finding of a bone size intermediate between male and female supports testosterone as an essential mediator for periosteal bone expansion, but not as the sole stimulus for bone expansion during growth.
The rise in bone Sr content measured by DPA as well as BMD measured by DXA was most marked initially. After the treatment was stopped bone Sr decreased rapidly only during the first months. In UD-radius the apparent BMD corrected for the influence of %Sr measured by DPA showed a slight decline like in an untreated population. Strontium containing drugs may influence DXA bone mineral measurements several years after treatment withdrawal. According to the power function model the skeletal retention three and six months after stopping the treatment would average 66% and 58%, respectively after three years of treatment, and 76% and 70%, respectively after eight years of treatment. However, individual predictions are uncertain due to large inter-individual variations, and the values cannot be extrapolated to other bone sites.
NK1 receptors are expressed by osteoblast and osteoclast precursors and SP stimulates osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation and function in vitro. SP neurotransmitter release from sensory neurons could potentially regulate local bone turnover in vivo.
The results of this investigation indicate that the influence of the two distinct isoforms of ghrelin on BMD is mediated by specific body composition parameters in obese and control healthy children.
At the femoral neck, American whites have lower bone density than American blacks but similar geometry. Women have higher bone density than men in both races but have smaller geometry variables. The differences in bone density may account in part for the differences in hip fracture incidence between American blacks and whites, whereas the differences in femur size may account for the differences in hip fracture rates between men and women.
Chronic use of antiepileptic drug (AED) in young adult patients is associated with low BMD.
This study reveals large differences in microstructure in the early osteogenesis and explains important mechanisms of early bone formation using rhBMP-2, COLLOSS E or autograft treatment. These differences might explain some of the unfortunate events reported such as edema, swelling, and excessive bone formation using different bone graft substitutes in spinal fusion procedures.
We postulate that, as in adults, the maturing M1 possesses horizontal glutamatergic cross-links that represent the neuronal substrate of excitatory intracortical pathways. GABAergic interneurons, the neuronal substrate of inhibitory intracortical pathways, mature between childhood and adulthood. Reduced GABAergic inhibition may facilitate neuronal plasticity and motor learning in children.
Follow-up of asymptomatic ALD boys with neuropsychological tests along with previously reported neurophysiological tests may help in determining the timing of therapeutic intervention. Neuropsychological abnormalities seemed to precede the appearance of clinical and MRI alterations.
Salvage RT is an effective treatment after radical prostatectomy according to ASTRO or Phoenix definitions. Only pre-RT PSA&gt; or =1 ng/ml predicted relapse.
Provided that the technique is adapted, the acute skin and heart toxicities of the concomitant administration of T-RT appeared satisfactory. More patients and longer follow-up are still mandatory.
The results of the full cost estimation suggested that medical reimbursements largely underestimate the costs related to innovation.
The treatment of locally advanced CC needs a new multidisciplinary diagnostic and treatment approach using new therapeutic arms to improve the survival and treatment tolerance among women presenting this disease.
Wide breast surgery (that can be conservative in selected patients) is the mainstay of the treatment of non metastatic malignant phyllodes tumors of the breast. To better determine the respective roles of adjuvant systemic treatment and radiotherapy, further clinical studies and the search for new prognostic and predictive factors remain necessary.
This study assesses the feasibility of delivering a total dose of 74 Gy combined with chemotherapy in locally advanced NSCLC. High lung and heart V(20) increases the risk of radiation-induced lung and cardiac toxicity, the later being highly difficult to precisely assess, as late deaths are rarely documented, and responsibility of the treatment might be often underestimated. The precise evaluation of cardiac condition may be helpful to spare fragile patients from potentially toxic effects of high-dose radiation, especially in controlled trials.
Amyloid deposits can be reliably subtyped in small diagnostic cardiac specimens using immunofluorescence. The practical aspects of implementing an immunofluorescence approach are compared with those of other approaches for subtyping amyloid in the clinical setting.
Excess decorin, biglycan, and versican may be associated with the remodeling of other matrix components in myxomatous mitral valves. Decreased expression of the hyaluronan receptor for endocytosis in myxomatous valves suggests that hyaluronan metabolism could be altered in myxomatous mitral valve disease. These findings contribute towards elucidating the pathogenesis of myxomatous mitral valve disease and developing potential new therapies.
Detection of PVIE, especially the isolated type, may be underdiagnosed. This condition should be kept in mind during evaluation of patients especially with cardiac anomalies, who present with fever, prominent respiratory symptoms, and negative blood cultures.
In our cases, fibromuscular hyperplasia of the pulmonary artery alone might or might not have accounted for the sudden deaths, if it had not been for the concomitant presence of hypoplasia of the arcuate nucleus in the brainstem and/or cardiac conduction system abnormalities. Therefore, they were classified as SIDS/sudden unexpected perinatal death gray zone or borderline cases. Necropsy studies of sudden infant and perinatal death should always include an accurate gross and histological examination of the pulmonary arteries, as well as of the brainstem and cardiac conduction system.
Pathologic findings in left ventricular apical cores have little prognostic utility in guiding patient management as related to overall 1-year mortality, but may indicate patients who are more likely to positively remodel their hearts.
The study describes the occurrence of DSM in adults. It is important to remember that it can occur following a repair of underlying congenital heart disease.
In the sample analyzed, the dual-compartment air cushion was the cushion with the best pressure distribution and largest contact surface of the user-cushion interface compared to the other three cushions studied.
Fixed- as well as mobile-bearing crosslinked polyethylene tibial inserts are suitable for total knee arthroplasty and showed reduced wear rates compared with conventional UHMWPE. The combination of the fixed-bearing Scorpio-knee-design with a sequential irradiated and annealed crosslinked polyethylene tibial insert (X3) seems to have an advantage in wear generation compared with other fixed- and mobile-bearing knee designs.
In patients with central cord syndrome capable of walking with one crutch or without crutches, walking with two crutches decreases speed, increases stride time and step time and improves stability by increasing single support, and diminishes ankle plantar flexion during swing phase.
In a severely osteoporotic model, failure in cantilever bending at low forces will take place regardless of fixation methods used. The mechanism of failure is different in locked constructs compared to traditional constructs. The added benefit of oblique screw placement observed in healthy bone is not observed in osteoporotic bone.
The present study shows that intra-articularly delivered hyaluronic acid has no statistically significant effect on the tensile strength of the rat anterior cruciate ligament. Although hyalinization was increased, no difference was found on the other markers for degenerative changes. We conclude that intra-articular hyaluronic acid injections can be performed safely, although the use of a precise injection technique is recommended.
In trunk kinematics analysis, it is recommended that all models, both in terms of markers involved and of reference frame definitions, are understood carefully before interpreting the results in clinical decision making.
A nonlinear measure such as largest Lyapunov exponent may be useful as an identifier of pathology and as a yardstick for the success of therapeutic interventions.
Differences in predictions between these modeling approaches vary depending on the task simulated and the joint considered in the single-joint models of the spine. Such studies are essential to critically evaluate relative performance of existing models and to propose modifications to improve accuracy in estimations. Ergonomic and clinical applications of such model studies should, hence, be carried out with due attention to associated underlying assumptions and shortcomings.
Combined valgus bending and tibiofemoral compression produce slightly higher contact pressures, but do not alter the gross injury pattern from isolated valgus bending experiments. Athletes who sustain a severe valgus knee bending moment, may be at risk of acute osteochondral damage especially if the loading mechanism occurs with a significant tibiofemoral compression component.
Evaluation of intrathecal TM synthesis is a specific, sensitive, reliable, and reproducible diagnostic tool, and is useful to support diagnosis of carcinomatous meningitis.
The data indicate that the cTnI Pathfast method may be suitable for helping clinicians in the management of patients with ACS.
Our study confirms the involvement of the Hp phenotype in infection with EBV. Phenotypes with a higher Hp concentration (Hp 1-1 and Hp 2-1) are less prone to positive EBV serology.
Our results support the significance of UA in the pathogenesis of MS. Decreased serum UA concentrations in MS patients might be due to both intrinsically reduced antioxidant capacity and increased UA consumption in MS. CSF UA concentrations may not be a reliable marker of disease activity in MS since its concentration is dependent on leakage of UA molecules from serum through the damaged BBB and the balance between consumption/production within the central nervous system (CNS).
The present investigation suggests the feasibility of using RQ-TRAP assay in routine screening of telomerase activity in blood specimens typically collected in a clinical/epidemiological setting.
Our results confirm that the high fluorescence signal provided by the optimized substrate may be applied to the identification of any fetal paternally inherited sequence. This helps extend the application of non-invasive prenatal diagnosis to genetic diseases caused by predominant mutations or minor rare molecular defects.
The ARCHITECT C-Peptide assay measures C-peptide rapidly, accurately, and precisely in human serum, plasma and urine. It provides useful improvements for beta-cell function testing and for evaluating the clinical status of a patient in combination with other diabetes markers.
In conclusion, the cobas c 501 module seems to be well-suited for routine use as consolidated workstation. Except for a potential interaction with AMPH, as indicated by the positive DeltaCV, no significant interferences from different reagents could be observed during this study.
This is the first study with QRT-PCR to examine the expressions of RhoA and RhoC genes in colorectal carcinoma of Chinese patients. The significantly up-regulated RhoA and RhoC expressions suggest that they may contribute to the initiation, development, invasion and metastasis of colorectal carcinoma in Chinese patients.
Although anti-CCP antibodies remain a useful diagnostic tool for RA, their interpretation in HCV-infected patients with arthritis should be applied with caution. The possibility that those patients could be prone to develop RA cannot be ruled out. Those patients need careful clinical and radiological follow-up. Further large-scale studies are warranted.
Taken together with the previous epidemiological evidence, the associations of serum GGT with OH-PAHs reinforce the concept that serum GGT is a marker for various environmental pollutants encountered at background levels in the general population.
CRP distribution and gender difference in Korean adults were found to be different from previous Western studies, although similar risk factors influence CRP concentrations. Our results suggest that ethnicity and gender specific cut-off thresholds for CRP concentrations should be taken into consideration in CVD risk assessment.
In this average-risk cohort, CRC incidence and mortality were reduced after screening colonoscopy. These results provide additional evidence for the effectiveness of colonoscopy as a primary CRC screening modality.
Adherence to BE biopsy guidelines in the community is low, and nonadherence is associated with significantly decreased dysplasia detection. Future studies should identify factors underlying nonadherence as well as mechanisms to increase adherence to guidelines to improve early detection of dysplasia.
Abnormal impedance in patients on therapy predicts acid reflux in patients off therapy. In patients with refractory reflux, combined impedance/pH monitoring might provide the single best strategy for evaluation of reflux symptoms.
Patients with NASH cirrhosis are at risk for developing hepatocellular carcinoma; patients with NASH cirrhosis, especially men older than 50 years, should undergo surveillance imaging. Patients with NASH and hepatocellular carcinoma have good outcomes after liver transplantation.
The prevalence of severe iron overload without reports of excessive exogenous iron did not differ significantly between whites and blacks. The prevalence of iron overload with reports of excessive exogenous iron was greater in whites. Hepatic failure and cardiomyopathy were common causes of death in severe iron overload cases.
Higher HRQOL predicts lower mortality in patients with cirrhosis. This relationship is independent of MELD; MELD does not capture liver-specific HRQOL. Beyond its use as a secondary outcome in clinical trials, HRQOL could be used to predict survival of patients with advanced liver disease.
The HBsAg seroprevalence was high (11.1%) in Chinese immigrants presenting for general medical care. A majority (75%) of HBsAg+ patients were HBeAg-. Sixty percent of HBeAg+ cases and 16% of HBeAg- patients with available data had both HBV DNA and ALT levels that would prompt consideration of antiviral therapy. These findings highlight the importance of testing and medical management of hepatitis B in Chinese Americans.
Approximately 1 in 36 hospitalized cirrhotic patients leave hospital against medical advice. Self-discharge is most common among patients with alcoholic cirrhosis, lower socioeconomic status, psychiatric disorders, substance abuse, and less severe liver disease. These findings might assist in the prevention of self-discharge and, ultimately, improve health outcomes in patients with cirrhosis.
A novel immunohistochemical scoring system was developed to address an unmet medical need to differentiate histologic specimens from patients with EoE relative to those with GERD. The availability of a unique anti-EPX-specific monoclonal antibody, combined with the ease/rapidity of this staining method and scoring system, will provide a valuable strategy for the assessment of esophageal eosinophilia.
Primary care dyspeptic patients without alarm symptoms rarely have serious underlying conditions at endoscopy. The costs associated with diagnosing an occult malignancy are large, but an age cut-off of 50 years for early endoscopy provides the best assurance that an occult malignancy will not be missed.
Patients with ulcerative colitis given prolonged-release oral mesalamine 2 g once daily had better remission rates, acceptability, and self-reported adherence to therapy compared with patients given oral mesalamine 1 g twice daily.
The FDG-PET method is superior to CT for the detection of nodal and extra-nodal HL. The observation that the FDG-PET method upstaged the disease was the most common result (20% of patients) brought about by the addition of PET to the staging algorithm, even in a population of patients with a high incidence of advanced disease. However, changes in stages based on FDG-PET results should be confirmed by biopsy.
EBUS showed signs of tracheobronchial invasion not observed by conventional bronchoscopy, adding information to staging in most of the cases when compared with CT and EUS.
Our data show that the use of a concentrated, isoflavone-rich soy extract during six consecutive months caused significant increases in epithelial thickness, the number of elastic and collagen fibers, as well as the blood vessels.
Our results show that the random arrival order of patients determine different assignments and therefore maintains the unpredictability of the allocation method. We conclude that our proposed procedure allows for the use of a large number of prognostic factors in a given allocation decision. Our method seems adequate for the design of the psychiatric trials used as models. Trial registrations are available at clinicaltrials.gov NCT00466609 and NCT00680602.
The analyses of the whole group of transplant recipients and the sub-group of emphysema patients suggest the superiority of bilateral transplant over the unilateral alternative. Although the pre-transplant values of lung function were worse in the double-lung group, this difference was no longer significant in the subsequent months after surgery.
Although both groups demonstrated functional improvement after transplantation, there was a clear tendency to greater improvement in FVC and FEV1 in the bilateral transplant group. Among our subjects, double-lung transplantation improved lung function.
The concordance of the measurements of the intra-vaginal pressure ranged from poor to moderate, suggesting that perineometers of different brands generate different results.
These results confirm that lung metastasectomy is a safe and potentially curative procedure for patients with treated primary tumors. A select group of patients can achieve long-term survival after resection.
Our cases were all primary surgeries. Primary trabeculectomy was performed in many cases because no treatment was sought until an advanced stage of disease had been reached.
In contrast to most reports, in the present study, trabeculectomy and CTT achieved higher long-term success rates than trabeculotomy. The patients with successful surgical results had better vision. Compliance with a routine of regular follow-up may increase the chances of a successful surgical outcome.
Long-term follow-up of patients with myocardial infarction revealed that IT during the in-hospital phase was at least as effective in elderly patients as in younger patients.
Given the results of the present study, we speculate that RF-EMR from mobile phones negatively affects semen quality and may impair male fertility.
According to our findings, famotidine exerts detrimental effects on the anastomotic bursting pressure and hydroxyproline content of perianastomotic tissues in the colon of rats.
A simple and practical methodology to evaluate the scientific production of health research institutions includes searches in the LILACS database for national journals and in MEDLINE and the Web of Science for international journals. The institutional impact factor of articles indexed in the Web of Science may serve as a measure by which to assess and review the scientific productivity of a research institution.
The results from this experimental model may be very important to a better understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms involved in the beginning of human SSc. Therapeutic protocols to avoid early remodeling of the skin may lead to promising treatments for SSc in the future.
Our data indicate that heat and moisture exchangers are more efficient when used with low tidal volume ventilation. The roles of flow and respiratory rate were of lesser importance, suggesting that their adjustment has a less significant effect on the performance of heat and moisture exchangers.
Hyperkalemia accompanies hemorrhagic shock and, in addition to providing an early sign of the acute ischemic insult severity, may be responsible for cardiac arrest related to hemorrhagic shock.
The approach leads to a flexible GUI that can adapt not only to information structures that had not been predefined within the receiving system, but also to novel ways of displaying the information. We also found that, ideally, the openEHR Archetype Definition Language should receive minor adjustments to allow for generic binding.
Although the issue of radiotherapy delay and that of sequence with chemotherapy or tamoxifen are clarified, the sequence of radiotherapy with aromatase inhibitors and trastuzumab needs to be defined. Individual radiosensitivity may influence toxicity. New biologic markers have to be determined in the future for tailoring radiotherapy in breast cancer.
Though MP has been well introduced in organ transplantation, in our opinion, it must still be optimized and standardized. It is necessary to clarify questions such as whether there is a need for oxygenation during perfusion, the length of perfusion, the impact of pressure, and the effects of additional scavengers. The results of the present study suggest the reconsideration of the ROP-technique for the preservation of predamaged donor grafts especially of NHBD and further studies, comparing MP and ROP upon long term preservation are strongly encouraged.
The negative impact of fever after neurologic injury is well understood. Prospective randomized trials are needed to determine whether the beneficial impact of secondary injury prevention is outweighed by the potential infectious risk of prolonged fever control.
In patients with acute ICH, rapid intensive BP-lowering treatment may provide protection against hematoma growth without concerns about safety and tolerability. How well such treatment can translate into overall benefits to patients is yet to be determined. At present, recombinant activated factor VII cannot be recommended for routine use, although BP lowering should generally follow conservative guidelines.
cEEG should be considered as an integral part of multimodality monitoring of the injured brain, particularly in patients at risk for nonconvulsive seizure or ischemia. Automated alarms may help establish cEEG monitoring as an integral part of brain monitoring. All neurological ICUs that routinely care for patients with refractory status epilepticus should have the capability to perform cEEG monitoring. Further research determining the impact on outcome and making EEG monitoring more user friendly may help move this technique out of the subspecialized ICU setting into the general ICU environment. In the future, it may be possible to use specific EEG parameters as endpoints for therapeutic interventions.
Cerebral microdialysis is an established tool for neurochemical research in the ICU. This technique cannot be fruitfully used in isolation, but when combined with other monitoring methods provides unique insights into the biochemical and physiological derangements in the injured brain.
This study reviews the latest advances in treating patients after cardiac arrest in the emergency department and critical care unit environments.
Data from the published trials leave no doubt about the benefit especially the life-saving character of hemicraniectomy for malignant hemispheric infarction. However, some open questions (i.e. timing of surgery, age limit for hemicraniectomy) remain to be answered in the future.
Routine prophylaxis against stress ulcers in the ICU is not well justified by current evidence. Patients at risk of stress ulcer-related bleeding are most likely to benefit from prophylaxis. Thus, healthcare professionals should continue to evaluate risk and assess the need for stress ulcer-related prophylaxis.
Annually, CDI adds billions of dollars to US healthcare costs compared with just a few years ago, and reflects a new and profound pattern of morbidity and mortality. As this disease changes, our knowledge and practice patterns must adjust to meet the current challenge of CDI.
The careful management of the patient in the ICU with acute liver failure improves the likelihood of survival.
Results suggest that polymerization of resin composite basing materials is more effective when light-curing through an FRC than through a resin composite indirect restoration. Prolonging of exposure time, however, is necessary when compared to light-curing without presence of indirect restoration material.
Dental ceramic materials show differences in terms of Ra, gamma(t) and initial streptococcal adhesion; however, correlations between surface properties and streptococcal adhesion were poor.
Simple, non-destructive hardness measurements can be used to determine Young's modulus values. Such values are needed in any calculations of stress distributions in soft lining materials, e.g. by FEA.
Transient exposure of tested materials to an acidic environment is likely to significantly increase the elemental release from them. The significant higher release of Ni from Ni-Cr alloy, and Zn, Cu from gold alloy was evident.
Since polymerization is severely hampered by oxygen inhibition in thin layers, one-step self-etch adhesives depend greatly on the polymerization of the first layer of lining composite to achieve their ultimate mechanical strength. Consequently, the bond strength to enamel is not influenced by the amount of photo-initiator, but on dentin, bond strength is compromised by droplets, probably due to water absorption, and additionally by the negative effect of water on polymerization and by continuing demineralization of unpolymerized acidic monomers. Overall, it was found that minimally 0.7wt% camphorquinone was needed.
The novel engineered zirconia primers produced initially high bond strength values which were significantly reduced after water storage. Long-term bond stability requires developing more stable primers.
Zirconia-reinforced GIC is sensitive to moisture. Artificial saliva storage has a detrimental effect on the failure load of ceramic-reinforced GIC that may indicate long-term deterioration in service.
(1) Selection of optimal photoinitiator/amine concentration is critical to materials' formulation, for excessive amounts can compromise materials' properties. (2) There was no sufficient evidence to suggest that contraction stress can be reduced by lowering CQ/EDMAB concentration without compromising DC and KHN.
The formation of TiO(2) nano-network on the Ti surfaces can increase the hMSC growth in vitro and in vivo.
This paper shows selected potential future developments in the area of resin-based dental materials, gives basic and industrial researchers in dental materials science, and dental practitioners a glance into the potential future of these materials, and should stimulate discussion about needs and future developments in the area.
For luting of ceramic inlays, only slight differences between the two luting systems were detectable. The operator influence on clinical outcome was clearly proven.
In the metabolic pathway of TEGDMA and HEMA the probability of an auxiliary chemical pathway was demonstrated. In case of MMA the formation of epoxidated metabolites can be excluded. In contrast to this the chemical pathway for TEGDMA and HEMA might lead to lipophilic intermediates which can be accumulated in fatty tissue.
Direct resin composites instead of ceramics or indirect resin composites should be recommended in clinical dentistry since they showed similar opalescence properties as compared with natural tooth enamel.
Wet bonding with ethanol instead of water permits better BisGMA infiltration improving the quality of interface. We speculate that the higher infiltration of hydrophobic BisGMA and better collagen encapsulation observed from the specimens using ethanol wet bonding would lead to more durable bonds because of improved resistance to hydrolytic attack.
This study suggests that OPPI can be used to replace the amine in a given CQ/amine photoinitiator system to accelerate cure rate, increase conversion, reduce initial color and increase color stability.
A complex relationship exists between curing protocol and the properties selected for investigation. The effect of different combinations of exposure periods and power densities are important to understanding how the curing protocol affects the properties of polymer-based materials.
At present it is difficult to predict the clinical significance of these statistically significant changes in archwire properties on orthodontic tooth movement.
Shrinkage data of resin-cements are of intrinsic clinical importance. Self-cure, despite a lower DC, did not necessarily result in a lower S(Y) compared to dual-cure. S(Y)-rate and S(Z) development depend upon cure mode and S(Y) upon filler fraction.
These data indicate that in diabetes increased FN production and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy may be mediated through leptin with its interaction with ET-1.
Our data suggest that insulin has an anti-inflammatory effect that is independent of the reduction it causes in blood glucose.
Niacin treatment lowers serum total- and phosphofetuin-A concentrations in individuals with MetS, and these changes correlate with the beneficial changes in serum lipids. Because niacin is known to induce insulin resistance, these findings suggest that fetuin-A may not be a mediator of niacin-induced insulin resistance but it may blunt the insulin resistance induced by niacin by decreasing its circulating concentrations.
These findings indicate that even in diabetic patients with HbA(1c) &lt; 6.0%, elevated serum levels of AGE determine a sort of a pro-thrombotic state, providing a common mechanism that could explain the increased rate of vein graft occlusion in this population.
A sufficient degree of in vitro differentiation is an essential prerequisite for further substantial maturation in a beta-cell-specific way in vivo, supported by cell-cell contacts and vascularisation.
PP increased according to T1DM duration in an age range where PP remained almost stable in controls, in agreement with accelerated arterial stiffening due to chronic hyperglycaemia. The baroreflex gain decreased and other indices of CAN also deteriorated with diabetes duration, more so indices reflecting parasympathetic rather than sympathetic dysfunction.
Our data suggest that 1-alpha(OH)D3 plus insulin therapy can preserve pancreatic beta-cell function in patients with LADA.
HG induces oxidative stress and affects steroid production in adrenal cells; the involvement of HO activity in the modulation of steroidogenesis in Y1 cells is postulated.
The two ACPA assays now on the market are equally useful for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. The correlation between RA disease activity and stratification with ACPA has only been demonstrated to date through the detection of anti-MCV antibodies.
Patients with AFib were found to have not only a high prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea, as has been described previously, but also a high prevalence of CSA/CSR. It remains unknown whether CSA/CSR is more common in AFib because of diastolic dysfunction or whether phenomena associated with CSA/CSR predispose to AFib. Further research on this question is needed.
The similar distribution to NHANES samples and correlation of BPA levels taken at 2-week intervals provide indirect evidence that BPA is relatively stable during long-term freezer storage. The correlations indicate generally stable exposures over periods of weeks. These findings suggest that developmental effects of BPA exposure could be investigated with measurements from stored urine.
Higher levels of Der p 1 and pet allergens were associated with asthma severity, but Der p 1 remained an independent risk factor after accounting for pet allergens and regardless of Der p 1 specific IgE status.
Exposure to RF-EMF varied considerably between persons and locations but was fairly consistent within persons. Mobile phone handsets, mobile phone base stations and cordless phones were important sources of exposure in urban Switzerland.
This first biomonitoring study of metal exposure in the African Copperbelt reveals a substantial exposure to several metals, especially in children. The urinary Co concentrations found in this population are the highest ever reported for a general population. The pathways of exposure and health significance of these findings need to be further investigated.
We found evidence that certain genetic backgrounds were associated with lead and mercury metabolism, suggesting gene-environment and gene-gene-environment interactions. The modes of interaction remain to be evaluated.
The results suggest that the ExTra index provides an assessment of PM(2.5) exposure similar to that of the reference method. Although caution is required in interpreting these results owing to the small number of sites, the ExTra index could be a useful epidemiological tool for reconstructing individual exposure, an important challenge in epidemiology.
The SALSAstand device has been successfully utilized on many patients in our service to accomplish the aforementioned goals in this most challenging patient population.
Speckle tracking echocardiography dobutamine stress appears to provide comprehensive information on LV mechanical status in the aftermath of ACE. The modality may help risk stratify such patients.
Ejection fraction is not the arithmetic average of regional EFs. An increase of asynchrony increases D-EF, i.e. it reduces the merit of EF as a measure of cardiac function.
Aortic arch analysis showed significant pathology in 2% of the adult population undergoing routine TTE. This led to therapeutic interventions in all patients with abnormal findings, and to curative therapy in more than quarter of them. Aortic arch analysis should be mandatory during a routine exam and part of any standard digital acquisition protocol for TTE in adults.
Despite the post-operative reduction of RV performance along the long axis suggested by TAPSE and PSV, the absence of a decrease in 3D RVEF leads to caution in the interpretation of these 2D and Doppler parameters after cardiac surgery, supporting the hypothesis of geometrical rather than functional changes in the right ventricle.
RT3DE provides improved accuracy of RV function assessment and decreases interobserver variability when compared with 2D views.
Our results confirm progressive adverse RV-LV interaction in the long-term post-operative follow-up of TOF. The use of z-scores facilitated the analysis of time courses of LV and RV diameters.
Type 2 diabetic patients demonstrate an early and concomitant induction of systolic and diastolic myocardial dysfunction as a preclinical manifestation of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Pulmonary artery systolic pressure at peak exercise can reach values &gt; or =60 mmHg in many healthy individuals older than 60 with good exercise capacity. However, high levels of PASP &gt; 60 mmHg for low level of exercise should be considered abnormal.
Myocardial contractile reserve (global and regional) is a strong predictive factor of LV reverse remodelling after CRT.
Although both methods regarding LV UR correlated well, these methods cannot be interchanged. STI showed a bias to underestimate UR at high values.
The empirical relationships derived in this cohort do not support the need to scale myocardial epsilon and SR derived from 2D speckle or TDI for any index of LV morphology.
Abnormal relaxation appears to have a particular distribution over the myocardial walls. Basal parts are generally more heavily affected, particularly the septal and inferior walls. The lateral wall and apical regions are more resistant to diastolic abnormalities. In subjects with normal global DD, strain echocardiography has an incremental value over mitral annular diastolic velocities and global indices of DD for early detection of diastolic abnormalities.
The most robust method to assess LV rotation with QLAB software is from the mid-myocardium. This method is feasible in approximately two-thirds of subjects and has good intra-observer, inter-observer, and temporal reproducibility, allowing to study changes over time in LV rotation in an individual patient.
PSLS at rest was significantly lower in patients with left main or three-vessel CAD without RWMA, and might be useful for identifying patients with a severe CAD.
Elevated BNP levels correlate with response of systolic right ventricular function assessed by IVA to Dobutamine stress.
The Aortascan BVI 9600 automatically detects the aortic diameter with a 90% sensitivity without the need for a trained operator. Because of these unique capabilities, it can be used for AAA screening outside the hospital.
The SYNTAX score is a visual coronary score with an acceptable corelab reproducibility that has an impact on the one-year outcome of those having PCI, whereas it has no effect on the one-year outcome following surgical revascularisation. The SYNTAX score tool is likely to be useful in a wide range of patients with complex coronary disease.
The beneficial effect of DES in reducing new revascularisations compared to BMS extends out to three years without a significantly worse overall safety profile. The benefit seems more evident in patients with the highest baseline risk of clinical restenosis.
Mortality and stent-related events were higher in expanded use than simple use patients in the pivotal trials. ARRIVE provides a detailed estimate of procedural and 2-year outcomes in such real-world patients.
While waiting for results of longer term PAVR echocardiographic follow-up, the anatomic assessment is encouraging with neointimal coverage of the native valve site and no excessive pannus formation occurring over the valve leaflets.
Percutaneous endovascular suture based cardiac repair is feasible. However, in utilising the current device clinical benefit was limited and the repair not durable. In the future, similar endovascular approaches may enable more complex cardiac repair.
OCT is a specialised technique with a relatively steep learning curve. Major complications are uncommon and can be minimised with careful procedural planning and having an awareness of the potential contributory risks, especially deep guide catheter intubation during contrast flushing. Upcoming developments will make OCT more practical and less procedurally demanding, also potentially conserving contrast volume considerably.
Matching treatments to these various forms of asymmetry at the main vessel-to-side-branch intersection may minimise injury and optimise scaffolding, and haemodynamic flow.
The use of the sleeve technique and DES in the treatment of non-left-main coronary bifurcation lesions is associated with a low angiographic restenosis, particularly at side branch ostium, and long-term safety.
Based on our findings, 1) The PRO-Kinetic clinical data shows excellent results on a large group of coronary patients, treated consecutively. 2) The data should emphasise the remaining role of 'state of the art' non DES platforms (i.e. such as PRO-Kinetic) for patients with a wide variety of characteristics and/or clinical syndromes.
Transradial compared to femoral arterial access is associated with similar rates of composite ischaemia and with fewer major bleeding complications in patients with ACS managed invasively. Bivalirudin monotherapy compared to heparin plus GPIs significantly reduces access site related major bleeding complications with femoral but not radial artery access, though non-access site related bleeding is reduced by bivalirudin monotherapy in all patients.
After coronary angioplasty, lesion regression at the dilated site from 7 months to 4.5 years is followed by slow lesion progression over the next 12 years.
Evaluation of CAS using the novel 3D system was feasible and showed equivalent results to validated QCA measurements. Length measurements seemed to be more accurate by the 3D system as compared to QCA. Therefore, this 3D-system can be used to guide decisions in interventional cardiology.
Ex vivo validation demonstrated the ability to characterise plaque tissue using an IVUS+RF system and a method incorporating (1) full spectral information (2) spectral similarity (3) estimating confidence of characterisation and, (4) ability to characterise plaque imaged through blood. Promising results were demonstrated in a live animal model. This approach may have potential for accurate and reproducible plaque characterisation in vivo.
VH-IVUS showed a good accuracy for in vivo plaque characterisation and is a promising technique for the detection of the vulnerable plaque.
The incidence and size of various coating irregularities on different types of DES varied widely. These data may be considered in ongoing discussions on the differences between DES and may serve as reference to compare novel DES.
The decrease of the activity of class I ADH isoenzymes in the wall of aortic aneurysm may be a factor of some disorders in metabolic pathways with participation of these isoenzymes.
The prominent expression of both EGF-R and BCL-2 (indicators of cell proliferation/survival) in the molar trophoblast suggests their involvement in the development of these tumors. The lack of significant p53 protein overexpression suggests the lack of underlying p53 mutations in hydatidiform moles.
The expressions of alpha-enolase in the left ventricle of the rats during normal and pathological cardiac development were different. This phenomenon provides the potential clues to understanding pathophysiological mechanisms in cardiac hypertrophy of SHR.
Among patients consulting a general practitioner for dyspeptic syndrome, 3 months of treatment with Carbosylane resulted in significant symptomatic improvement. The improvement was still evident 2 months after the end of treatment.
The present study suggests that a multifaceted interventional program can dramatically improve physician compliance with the guidelines for Barrett's esophagus. For this reason, we recommend that national scientific societies disseminate their guidelines through targeted activity to ensure that they are followed by hepatogastroenterologists.
Esophageal motor disorders are frequently seen in scleroderma, especially in cases with clinical symptoms, but are not associated with a specific form of the disease.
Both tests have a high predictive capacity to detect the presence of LF in inmates with chronic hepatitis C, but their predictive value in detecting intermediate stages of LF is low. Moreover, a significant number of inmates with LF are not identified.
The prevalence of IBS is high and is associated with depressive symptoms and female sex in an adult population in Colombia. This disorder generates substantial health system utilization and medical disability and restricts activities of daily life.
By identifying spouses' needs for security, rest for mind and body, and inner strength, health care professionals can confirm these needs throughout the caring process, from the critical care period and throughout rehabilitation at home. Interventions to confirm spouses' needs are important because they are vital to the patients' recovery.
The study revealed no compatibility in the process of benefit finding between patients and spouses. Clinical implications for cardiac rehabilitation interventions are discussed.
The results complement other evidence linking marital quality to the course of HF and highlight the importance of looking beyond the patient to improve prediction of health outcomes.
Depression and functional status are amenable to intervention. The outcomes of older adult patients (especially female) undergoing CABG might improve if nurses preoperatively assess for and intervene to improve depression and functional status.
The HRQoL of patients and significant others differed from each other at both 6 and 12 months after CABG. Previous HRQoL affects later HRQoL in both patients and significant others.
It is essential that health care professionals are educated on and inform the patient with MI about the significance of sexual function and coexistence. Further research is required regarding patients' and their partners' need for information and support in this area.
In situations in which the clinical assessment is equivocal, BIS monitoring may have an adjunctive role in sedation assessment. BIS values should be interpreted with caution, however, because electromyography activity and other factors seem to confound BIS scores. More research is necessary to determine the role of BIS monitoring in ICU practice.
Prophylactic antidepressant drug therapy appears efficacious in preventing future relapses across a range of illness severity as well as age. More studies are needed to explore the effects of various acute antidepressant strategies and the direct influence of treatment resistance on relapse outcomes.
In this small, open-label study, duloxetine appeared to be effective for many features of IBS, but its adverse effects, most notably constipation, limited its use. Since our study excluded individuals with concurrent major depression, it appears that duloxetine may benefit IBS independently of its antidepressant effects. These encouraging but preliminary open-label findings support further investigation of duloxetine treatment in placebo-controlled trials of IBS.
Melperone did not significantly increase PRL levels in male patients. However, melperone and typical neuroleptics caused increase in PRL levels in females. Further study of melperone's effects on PRL concentration is warranted.
Routine and broad assessment of cognition in the development of wake-promoting drugs may reveal important nootropic effects, which are not secondary to alertness/wakefulness, whilst existing cognitive enhancers may have underexplored or unknown wake promoting properties.
Patients in need of urgent care were identified in more than nine out of 10 cases. The high level of over-triage and under-triage in the less urgent categories resulted in low agreement and accuracy. This may suggest that the resources of emergency departments can be overused for non-urgent patients.
Torus splints in all the studies were consistently better than plaster immobilisation in terms of clinical outcome, patient preference and cost, with the exceptions of young children or children with special needs who can easily remove the device. Splinting torus fractures may reduce cost, time and resource management if used instead of casting in the ED.
The present study confirms evidence that serum sHLA-G and sHLA-A, -B, -C molecules are significantly increased in patients with pollen-induced AR also during the pollen season. Moreover, sHLA-G might be considered as a biomarker for assessing clinical severity.
The subconjunctival injection of the alpha-MSH expression vector ACTH1-17 plasmid is effective in suppressing EAU. The suppressive activity is dependent on MC5r expression, and possibly works though alpha-MSH antagonism of inflammation than on alpha-MSH directly modulating immune cells. The results suggest that an effective therapy for uveitis could include a gene therapy approach based on delivering alpha-MSH.
Results of this pilot study suggest that the potential benefits of leflunomide to treat PVAN in kidney-transplant patients is not related to reduced immunosuppression induced by replacing MMF by leflunomide. Virological studies are required to determine the anti-BKV effect of leflunomide.
These results suggest that both peer cues and psychological cues increase the possibility of contingent smoking, and should, therefore, be addressed by anti-smoking policies and anti-smoking programs. More specifically, special attention can be paid to help smokers avoid or counter social pressure to smoke and to help smokers resist the use of cigarettes to relieve distress.
The present study supplies a first scientometric approach that visualises research activity in the field of tobacco control. It provides data that can be used for funding policy and the identification of research clusters.
The geostatistical analysis showed that OMWM demonstrated considerable potential for effective mosquito control and compatibility with other natural resource management goals such as restoration, wildlife habitat enhancement, and invasive species abatement. GPS and GIS tools are invaluable for large scale project design, data collection, and data analysis, with geostatistical methods serving as an alternative or a supplement to the conventional inference statistics in evaluating the project outcome.
INAHTA has developed as a global point of contact and information for those with interests in HTA.
HTA in Australia now has a long history and is well established as a source of advice to health decision makers. Challenges remain in extending the scope of assessments, developing more transparent approaches in some areas, and consistently applying appropriate standards.
It took approximately 15 years from first research activities in HTA to an institutionalization. HTA in Austria is not only product- but also process-oriented: The actual production of assessments for decision support is as important as the structuring and accompanying of the process of decisions making. In addition, shaping the public understanding of science (characterized by the intrinsic belief that all new medical interventions provide added value to the healthcare system) is part of Austrian HTA.
Although the Belgian history of HTA is relatively short, its foundations are strong and the impact of HTA increasing. Nevertheless KCE has many challenges for the future, including continued quality assurance, further development of international collaboration, and further development of methodological guidance for HTA.
These developments have led to a considerable impact of HTA in Germany. In addition, a broad spectrum of activities at universities and in other organizations, such as the German Institute for Medical Documentation and Information (DIMDI), can be observed that contribute to both teaching and research in HTA. German researchers in the field of HTA are actively involved in international projects, such as EUNetHTA, and contribute to scientific conferences and journals.
The current HTA-related landscape is at least as dynamic as it has been at any point in its turbulent 30-year history and is likely to continue as health reform in the US is debated once again.
The first national strategy for HTA, the broad HTA model covering four elements: Technology (clinical aspects), Patient, Organization, and Economy, and the development and introduction of mini-HTA as a tool for HTA-related activities in institutions and municipalities are major contributions to international HTA.
At the local level, the hospital-based HTA activity is probably the most important peculiarity of the country and the real driver of the HTA movement.
HTA is currently of common use in Catalonia for decision making at different levels. Now emphasis has to be put on the coming challenges that the HTA community will have to face in the coming years: uncontrolled demand, capacity scarcity, a rapidly evolving knowledge frontier, and insufficient input from the economic sphere into evaluations.
ICTAHC's role and functioning has expanded since its beginnings. HTA has become an important part of health care in Israel.
During the 10 years' time, HTA has become a well-established activity in Norway.
The UK experience shows that information on clinical and cost-effectiveness may not be enough to change practice, at least in the short-run. Still, one may conclude that the United Kingdom now has one of the few most important and influential HTA programs in the world.
Institutionalized HTA in Korea has been driven mainly by the requirements of the NHI and manifested strengths as well as weaknesses. The government is establishing a new organization for HTA, independent from the NHI.
Malaysia has successfully implemented a health technology program that has had major impact on policy formulation and decision making at various levels. Challenges may be faced in sustaining and developing the program further.
Over the past two decades a notable progression has been made in relation to the capacity building of HTA research and its policy utility in Thailand. Such development has been shaped by multiple factors. It is anticipated that experience gained among academics, health officials, and civil society organizations will be helpful not only in sustaining the momentum but also in improving formal HTA systems in the future.
In conclusion, what is needed in Argentina is a clear political will to push forward for a national agency of HTA that, similar to other developed countries, advance the regulation on the adoption of new health technologies to improve not only technical or allocative efficiency, but also health equity. Until this milestone is accomplished, the HTA production and use to inform healthcare coverage policies will continue to mirror the current fragmented healthcare system.
Institutionalization of HTA in resource-constrained settings requires the development of a critical mass of researchers involved in this field, the implementation of information efforts, and the establishment of strong relationships between HTA experts and policy makers.
HTA has become a strong influence in the healthcare system in France. These developments may be considered rather typical of the approach to public policy questions in France, where regulation is more in use than in other countries (at least in the healthcare field). At the same time, this approach has made lobbying and other attempts to influence decisions common as well, so one might say that HTA is more politicized than in some other countries in Europe.
Because of the absence of a governmental institution assessing and reporting on new health technologies, private and for profit organizations became more important for the decision-making processes. In a regulated market, the implications may be crucial for the public health.
Some countries in the region have effective HTA programs, whereas in some, efforts are being made to establish HTA, or HTA-related activities are being carried out in the absence of a formal HTA program.
The situation today is that HTA is visible and is used by the government in policy decisions, especially in the areas of prevention and screening. In addition, HTA is influential in insurance coverage decision making, especially in the field of pharmaceuticals. The principles of HTA and evidence-based medicine are generally familiar to physicians and other clinicians, however, the influence of HTA on clinical and administrative decisions is less than in some other countries.
HTA in Spain is in its maturity. Facing the unavoidable change of health care environment over time, HTA is also evolving and, currently, there is a trend to broaden the areas of influence of HTA by devolving capacity to hospitals and applying principles to very early phases of health technology development, under the umbrella of regional HTA units/agencies. However, there are two main challenges ahead. One is to have a real impact at the highest level of healthcare policy coordination among Spanish regions, which is done at the Central Ministry of Health. The other is to avoid the influence of political waves in the level of recognition of HTA at the policy decision-making level and to have an adequate and stable funding of HTA initiatives.
As a developing country struggling to provide comprehensive health care to all citizens, PhilHealth sees HTA as an essential part of assuring that only effective and cost-effective care is provided for the public sector.
It would be desirable if the Federal Ministry of Health of Brazil were to proceed to develop a national agency for HTA.
Unfortunately, in this country, there is still a very small demand for HTA reports from the decision-maker's side. Hopefully joining the network of European Union Network for Health Technology Assessment (EUnetHTA) will give a new challenge for further policy development.
A technology licensure mechanism based on HTA, including technology permission for use, institution licensure, and workforce licensure, is being gradually carried out by the MoH in China. Moreover, HTA can play an important role in technology market entry, insurance benefit coverage, formulary, clinical pathway, reimbursement, and so on. There is a great opportunity for HTA to be an important part of health reform, especially to help policy makers within the health sector to make difficult decisions.
Bright light therapy is a potential alternative to drug treatment in people with dementia who are agitated.
We found a discrepancy between balance confidence and physical performance according to sex and age among Koreans elders. Low balance confidence among women elders was correlated with pain-related dysfunctions other than those reflected in POMA scores. Therefore, enhancing confidence and controlling pain as a means of preventing disability should be emphasized when developing models for maintaining and promoting health in elders.
To our knowledge this is the first nationwide representative survey to examine the late-life effects of forced displacement, particularly of persons displaced during WWII in Germany. Further research is needed to identify mediating variables and to evaluate psychotherapeutic interventions in elderly trauma survivors.
These findings support the hypothesis that sleep disturbances are one of the core non-cognitive symptoms of MCI. It remains to be known whether sleep problems could help to identify those individuals with MCI who will eventually develop dementia. Studies characterizing sleep more systematically are needed to verify this proposition and to clarify the associations between sleep disturbances and other neuropsychiatric symptoms of MCI.
This survey has provided useful benchmarking data on Australian memory clinics which can also be used by other countries for comparative analyses.
Referrals to a liaison psychiatry service for older people for assessment of mental capacity are common. The main mental capacity issues in older people were those linked to discharge planning. The relatively high proportion of those found to have capacity when capacity had been queried by referring clinicians attests to the important role of specialist liaison teams, particularly in complex cases, in protecting the autonomy of vulnerable older people, and avoiding institutionalization.
There are a variety of tests that appear suitable for screening older drivers, the exact choice of which depends on the "gold standard" for determining driving ability (on-road driving, driving simulator, driving problems) and whether a computerized or paper-and-pencil task is required.
In order to increase the rate of utilization, family caregivers must be convinced of the relevant advantages of using SRC facilities. The staff should be trained in caring for dementia patients and appropriate activities should be available.
Research on EOD is still in its early stages. There is an urgent need to expand research that will lead to more effective diagnosis and management of EOD as well as to the allocation of funds and the development of appropriate services suitable for the unique needs of young people with dementia.
Findings indicate that the presence of the APOE epsilon4+ genotype increases the risk for BSD in NH residents with dementia. Direct observation proved a more accurate estimate of BSD than proxy report.
The participants comprising the AIBL cohort represent a group of highly motivated and well-characterized individuals who represent a unique resource for the study of AD. They will be reassessed at 18-month intervals in order to determine the predictive utility of various biomarkers, cognitive parameters and lifestyle factors as indicators of AD, and as predictors of future cognitive decline.
The findings of this study were unable to confirm conclusively that prompt and successful medical resuscitation of those who attempt suicide makes a contribution to the decline in elderly suicide rates and requires further study. Public health initiatives should be designed to reduce not only suicide rates but also rates of attempted suicide; otherwise they are failing in the prevention of mental illness and suicidal behavior, early identification and treatment of those with mental illness and those at risk of suicide, and systematic follow-up of those recovering and recovered from mental illness.
The MCTS could be used routinely in clinical practice with carers of people with dementia to detect clinically concerning cases of abuse, many of which are currently being missed.
Presence of core clinical features of non-AD dementia syndromes is common in AD. Concordance between clinical and pathological diagnoses of dementia remains variable. We propose that repeat clinical examinations and structural neuroimaging will improve diagnostic accuracy. In addition, clinical diagnostic criteria for the main dementia syndromes require refinement.
These findings suggest that mania in the elderly is a severe form of affective disorder with respect to psychotic and cognitive symptoms. Conclusions from this study are limited due to its retrospective design. Further studies in this area are warranted.
Donations to dementia charities were significantly more common in obituaries in Canada than in the U.K. In both countries, donations to medical charities did not reflect disease prevalence or impact to the individual. Societal attitudes in the U.K. may be impacted by the fragmentation of aging research and antipathy to geriatric medicine in the national medical press.
This study confirms the findings of previous research with respect to the high prevalence of depression in physically unwell older adults, and extends knowledge about anxiety in this group. Symptoms of anxiety are even more common than symptoms of depression in this group, especially around the time of admission to hospital. Over a relatively short time period, there is a marked reduction in symptoms, but levels of anxiety and depression remain high.
Compared with studies from developed countries, the global prevalence of dementia in LA proved similar, although a higher prevalence of dementia in relatively young subjects was evidenced, which may be related to the association between low educational level and lower cognitive reserve, causing earlier emergence of clinical signs of dementia in the LA elderly population.
The key to this caregiving arrangement is the establishment of trust. Yet, many care recipients experienced violations of trust that resulted in abuse and neglect, which served to further intensify fears and concerns about this caregiving arrangement. The same coping methods used to maintain this arrangement, despite fears and concerns, are the ones responsible for maintaining the older care recipient in an abusive situation.
Implementation of an ERP resulted in improvements in the effectiveness and timeliness of electrolyte replacement and nurses and physicians were satisfied with the ERP.
This survey indicates that MH is widely used as an important item of airway management. Importantly, there is no uniformity in the performance of the procedure. Before definitive research can be developed, standards for the MH procedure should be established.
This research adds to the limited body of knowledge concerning CVICU nurses' experiences with end-of-life care. Results of this study provide a basis for putting in place support systems for CVICU nurses.
Pregnant adolescents seek health care in both modern and traditional health sectors in order to get safety and empathy. However, our findings indicate that they mostly utilize the traditional sector because it is most accessible in terms of distance, cost and cultural context. Adolescent mothers are disempowered in decision making because of their pregnancy state which often puts them in dilemma. We therefore suggest that policy makers need to improve health systems (including the traditional sector) especially maternal health services for adolescent girls. Improved infrastructure and attitudes of health worker as well as training in delivery of adolescent health services is critical.
To optimize the schedules, we define the average weighted flow time as an objective function that corresponds to a measure for the task throughput. An evaluation of the algorithm at the Natters State Hospital in Austria shows that it has a superior performance than the current scheduling mechanism.
Clinicians design their own information tools based on the existing health information technologies to meet their information needs. The characteristics of these clinician-designed tools provide insights into the "realities" of how clinicians work with health information technologies. The findings suggest an often overlooked role for health information technologies: facilitating user creation of information tools that will best meet their needs.
When compared with the 2006 Appropriateness Criteria, opinion regarding clinical use of CCT has experienced a significant shift toward appropriateness across most indications, similarly judged among international cardiology and radiology experts in the field.
This proof-of-concept study shows the ability of dual-source CT scanners to scan the whole heart during one single heart beat at low radiation dose.
On the basis of this ex vivo study, HDCT provides superior detection of intrastent luminal area and diameter visualization, compared with SDCT. ASIR image reconstruction techniques for HDCT scans enhance the in-stent assessment while decreasing image noise.
Low effective radiation dose with acceptable image quality on 320-row MDCT can be achieved with one-heart beat scan acquisition when HR is &lt;65 beats/min. Further reduction in dose can likely also be achieved by modification of the prospective-gated imaging parameters.
The results of this trial will further our understanding of the relative appropriateness of CTA and MPI in evaluating intermediate-risk patients hospitalized with chest pain. It will also have implications for the design and probability of success of multicentered trials that are currently being planned.
Although acute myocardial infarction on CCTA in ED patients is an infrequent event, proper and prompt recognition is critical for appropriate patient care, particularly as applications to the ED increase.
A decrease in serotonin metabolism but not an increase in the responsiveness of somatodendritic 5-HT-1A receptors is involved in sugar-rich diet induced hyperphagia.
TST was found to be more sensitive and less specific than ETT in the diagnosis of CAD.
The single-visit root canal treatment was safe in terms of endodontic flare-ups as far as results of this study are concerned. It was safer in both vital and non-vital teeth, and even in teeth with periapical pathosis.
Transhiatal esophagectomy is the surgical treatment of choice for resection of carcinoma esophagus specifically at the lower and mid-esophageal levels. The frequency of complications is lower as compared to transthoracic approach and the early stage of presentation can lead to high 5-year survival ratios.
These results suggest a possible role of the hepatitis C virus itself in the pathogenesis of steatosis and indicate its close relationship with fibrosis and focal degeneration in chronic hepatitis C. Necro-inflammation seen in liver biopsy is host immune reaction to hepatitis C virus and is not related to steatosis.
WHR was positively and independently related to occurrence of arterial hypertension. Elevated levels of WHR, BMI, fasting blood glucose, total cholesterol and triglycerides were responsible for progression of pre-HTN stage in to HTN stage-1.
Perinatal mortality was twice as high in high risk group compared to low risk group. However, the complications in the neonates were statistically insignificant between the two groups.
Acceptable visual results were achieved after the removal of posterior segment intraocular foreign bodies by vitrectomy. However, multiple complications can be encountered which require meticulate postoperative care.
Although dysentery was the more common presenting complaint, almost half of the patients presented with watery diarrhea. Most of the patients with dysentery were under the age of 5 years. Fever was present in a high number of patients. The age group most affected by amoebiasis and malnutrition was 1-5 years.
There is increasing scientific evidence that calculation of %IBW as a measure of nutritional status in children with CF is flawed and should be discontinued. It is expected that future guidelines will recommend the use of alternative measures of weight-for-height proportion, e.g. BMI percentiles, to assess underweight and malnutrition in patients with CF.
Routine adherence monitoring can be implemented in an outpatient setting. Using this type of information it is possible to identify which aspects of treatment can be improved and to work together with families to individualize treatments.
High-dose IV-pulse methylprednisolone is an effective treatment for ABPA in CF with minor side effects.
Pyomyositis is a potential extra-pulmonary complication of Bcc infection in patients with CF. A high index of clinical suspicion is required to make a prompt diagnosis. Final diagnosis may need MRI. An early diagnosis, aggressive medical therapy, multidisciplinary care and timely surgical intervention are all essential for proper management of this condition.
Using a qualitative inductive methodology, we have obtained patient centered data regarding pulmonary symptoms and burdens and have created a novel patient reported outcome measure for CF. Future studies will assess the validity of the instruments.
Men's preferences around SRH were more consistent than clinical practices. Clinical practice guidelines and training for health professionals would help reduce the gap between men's SRH preferences and clinical practice.
In central Bangkok, a short-term association was observed between increases in daily levels of PM(10) and O(3) and the number of daily emergency hospital visits for CVD, particularly among individuals aged &gt;or=65 years.
The increase in height among Thai men is biological evidence that a Thai health-risk transition-defined by both changing risks and outcomes-is well underway for height. Military recruits born during the 1960s through the 1980s had progressively healthier childhoods. Over this period child nutrition improved, infection and mortality rates declined, and preventive health services expanded. The combined effect of these factors is indicated by the increased adult height of Thai military recruits.
Our findings indicate that low socioeconomic status, history of hypertension, diabetes, and regular use of folk remedies or over-the-counter Chinese herbs were significant risk factors for ESRD, while regular intake of a multivitamin supplement was associated with a decreased risk of ESRD.
The results show that the perception of barriers to exercise varies among specific population groups, which indicates the importance of targeting exercise promotion strategies to specific populations.
Noncardia gastric cancer is still more frequent in East Azerbaijan, which is likely due to the very high prevalence of infection with Helicobacter pylori. The low rate of cancer involving the fundus is a target for further research on the etiology of gastric cancer.
The association of AF with residence in the Stroke Belt and black ethnicity was inversely related to the sensitivity of the method used to detect AF: as test sensitivity increased, the association became attenuated. This may partially explain the lower reported prevalence of AF in populations and regions with higher stroke rates.
Incidence of hepatitis A has decreased in all age groups, likely due to changing socioeconomic conditions and increasing hepatitis A vaccine use. Nevertheless, western populations remain at high risk, with transmission predominantly occurring among children. The epidemiology of hepatitis A transmission is not well understood. Improved surveillance with better laboratory confirmation is needed to monitor the impact of universal hepatitis A vaccination of young children; this strategy began to be implemented in 2008.
Our results show an inverse trend between the consumption of P ovata and colorectal cancer mortality. We recommend additional observational studies of individuals, in order to better control confounding factors.
These results might suggest a risk of acute complications due to left atrial ablation. Alternatively, recurrence of atrial fibrillation might be caused by protected myocardium around the atrial arteries. We should note that atrial coronary arteries cross the ablation line in many patients.
Pulmonary veins disconnection with MESH ablator catheter is feasible with short procedural and X-ray exposure time. Further studies are needed to compare this new device to standard multipolar mapping catheters in order to evaluate its ability to correctly identify pulmonary vein potentials and to compare its safety and efficacy.
Gaps between ablation lesions can be accurately identified down to less than 1 mm distances in vitro using a direct visualization catheter. Further studies are warranted to confirm these finding in vivo.
None of the clinical variables tested in our analysis predicted optimal RV-LV settings. Our results suggest that individual optimization and programming of V-V settings is necessary. The inability to predict optimal settings likely reflects the unique characteristics of each patient and supports the need for individualized programming of each device.
Selective laser ablation of Koch's triangle is feasible with a combined laser and balloon-tipped endoscope.
In elderly patients enrolled in the MIRACLE and MIRACLE-ICD trials, CRT resulted in significant improvements in NYHA class and LVEF, regardless of age. These data suggest that the full age range of patients with appropriate indications for implantation can benefit from CRT.
Hypotension is a common occurrence during defibrillator implantation under conscious sedation. Risk factors for significant hypotension include: higher NYHA class, lower left ventricular ejection fraction, lower creatinine clearance, higher doses of propofol and longer procedure times.
In PAF patients, LA can be activated during sinus rhythm through three distinct connections, either encompassing a single route or via any combination of these connections. In one third, the earliest LA activation occurs outside BB. The knowledge of the propagation patterns may give insight into the pathophysiology of PAF and into refining ablation therapy.
The results support the potential of using UniTherapy software with a conventional joystick system as an upper-extremity assessment instrument. We demonstrated the ability of using various types of goal-directed tasks to distinguish between subjects with different impairment levels. In addition, we were able to show that different force fields have a significant effect on the performance across subjects with different impairment levels in the trajectory tracking task. These results provide motivation for studies with a larger sample size that can more completely span the impairment space, and can use insights presented here to refine considerations of various task settings so as to generalize and extend our conclusions.
The most important result of this study was the finding that the obvious differences in treatment-related parameters between Gamma Knife and CyberKnife had no impact on the quality of the clinical outcome after radiosurgery. Survival time increased chronologically, presumably due to an intensified anti-cancer therapy in the more recent era of the CyberKnife treatments.
Bevacizumab appears to produce radiographic response and clinical benefits in the treatment of patients with cerebral radionecrosis.
6MW distance is a clinically feasible tool that provides an objective measure of physical functioning in select patients with recurrent glioma. Further research is required to investigate the prognostic value of these tests in patients with advanced malignancy.
Our results for PFS and overall survival are comparable with those obtained with temozolomide, but the toxicity occurring in our series was more frequent and persistent. The toxicity, and mainly the modalities of administration associated with cisplatin and BCNU combination, argues against future use in the treatment of patients with GBM.
Combining PWI and DWI with conventional MR imaging increases the accuracy of pre-operative imaging grading of glial neoplasms. The rCBV measurements had the most superior diagnostic performance in predicting glioma grade. Absolute ADC values or ADC ratios were also helpful in preoperative grading of gliomas. Threshold values can be used in a clinical setting to evaluate tumors preoperatively for histologic grade and provide a means for guiding treatment and predicting postoperative patient outcome.
CyberKnife fractionated radiosurgery seems to be a viable alternative local treatment modality in uveal melanoma with no serious acute side effects. Further follow-up is indicated.
This study for the first time shows a good correlation between expression of ER and D2R isoforms in prolactinomas and gonadotrope tumors. Reducing the amount of the ERalpha in neoplasm cells can alter the ratio of D2L/D2S, which may increase the drug sensitivity of pituitary adenomas.
FIM-FAM system is relatively simple, easy to perform in routine clinical practice and may be used as a tool for assessment of rehabilitation program. There is strong correlation with age, type of tumor, and site of disease with different functional and cognitive domain impairment.
PCT was the most accurate predictor of both thrombolytic therapy benefit and clinical outcome. The TIBI score was useful for determining whether or not to perform intravenous therapy alone or as a combined therapy.
Onyx is suitable for BAVM embolization with acceptable morbidity and mortality.
This article is of significance for nurse managers as the future workforce and skill mix of both acute and community settings will be strongly influenced by the initial preregistration nurse education.
The Delphi survey was successfully used to identify nurses' research priorities at a county hospital. A total of 39 topics were identified from content analysis of research areas described by nurses. Factor analysis revealed three factors: work environment, newborn issues and effects of leadership.
The Delphi survey is a useful way to begin a program of research. Nurses who have a successful experience with research are more likely to become further involved in research, which will allow them to more effectively participate in decision making and improving the work environment. In addition, items were identified that needed to be addressed by nursing managers.
Preceptors, to be effective within the preceptor/student relationship, need to integrate both their professional and personal attributes to effectively socialize students to the profession of nursing.
The preceptor role is invaluable within nurse education. This study supports the release of registered nurses to attend preceptor preparation programmes. It highlights the importance of nursing management in preceptor selection, release, support and monitoring in order to create an effective clinical learning environment.
Education, training and development as well as employer/commissioner practice will rely on leadership from within the nurse profession itself. For nurse managers, this requires a rapid planning process in order to ensure smooth implementation. The danger is that either education providers or commissioners of nursing services will react rather than proactively plan for the changes that are already in progress.
The six areas identified by subjects as those to include in any assessment tool were further developed with specific statements so that they could be used within a tool. IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING MANAGEMENT AND EDUCATION: Within the changing nature of health care there is a need to review whether the tool used for assessing pre-registration education of nursing and midwifery students practice is 'fit for purpose'.
It was identified that there was a strong need to ensure graduate nurse programmes were consistent across New Zealand in order to support graduate nurses and retain them in the workforce.
management The first year of practice remains a challenging transition time with a need for a well-structured and supported programme. Key needs include learning activities grounded in practice experience, robust programme coordination, skilled clinical educators, preceptors, and a structured learning framework.
The succession planning programme provided an opportunity for the organization to identify new leaders. The study outcomes have identified potential improvements to the way succession planning is conducted at the hospital.
Nurse Managers are in key positions to develop effective succession planning models. This study offers a process for managers to develop effective succession planning programmes within their organization.
Work-based learning and collaboration between students, employers and higher education institutions can be used to enable managers and students to unravel the network of factors which affect advanced practice in health and social care. Additionally, collaborative working can help to create opportunities to develop strategies that will facilitate change. Implications for nursing management Sustainable change concerned with the introduction of advanced practitioner roles present a real challenge for managers at a strategic and operational level. Commissioning flexible, collaborative and service-led educational programmes can assist in ensuring that change is sustainable and produce practitioners who are fit for practice, purpose and award.
There is a need to re-examine what CPD is available for practitioners providing care around the clock. Traditional forms of CPD may not reflect the evolving reality of practice at night.
There is a need to ensure CPD opportunities are reviewed regularly to reflect changing 24-hour service demands in all settings.
The findings suggest, first that short courses that were specific to the non-medical prescribers role were considered to be the most popular and useful. However, courses needed to be advertised well in advance. Second, training gaps were identified.
Pharmacology and prescribing are rapidly changing and require regular CPD in order to keep up to date with the latest developments. Non-medical prescribing is a comparatively new innovation to the NHS, therefore those who are not medically qualified need mentorship from experienced prescribers, as well as the encouragement from nurse managers to be confident prescribers themselves and enhance patient care.
These findings, which contribute to the international evidence-base on health care support workers roles, provide nurse managers with numbers of assistant practitioners and their deployment. This is useful for Nurse Managers making workforce decisions.
Issues relating to effective implementation and the need for further research into the efficacy and effectives of such initiatives is required.
Engagement is an important mechanism by which empowerment affects nurses feelings of effectiveness but less important to new graduates' feelings of work effectiveness than empowerment. Implications for nursing management Managers must be aware of the role of empowerment in promoting work engagement and effectiveness and differential effects on new graduates and more seasoned nurses.
The Releasing Time to Care programme is a key component of the Next Stage Review. It will create productive organisations by being a catalyst for the transformation of Trust services, enabling staff to spend more time caring for patients and users. This release in time will result in better outcomes and subsequent improvement with patient and staff satisfaction and experience of the NHS as well as a cultural change for the workforce.
Releasing Time to Care, also known as the productive ward, offers a systematic way of delivering safe, high quality care to patients across healthcare settings. The Institute for Innovation and Improvement, have devised a programme of 15 modules based on 'lean' methodology. It has been widely piloted and in January 2008 was rolled out as a national initiative with 50 million pound pump priming money. Evidence shows that the programme can improve patient satisfaction as it enables the provision of an increase in direct patient care by staff and subsequent improved clinical and safety outcomes. The programme has to be implemented in a structured manner in order to assure its success and release the benefits. Core to this success is Board level commitment. Board members need to sign up to and understand the concepts of the programme and their role in supporting the ward staff. The organisation needs to understand the benefits that the programme will bring to the organisation as well as the challenges. The Board needs to understand that the programme is focussed on improving the quality of care for patients and not an opportunity to reduce costs.
PDE5I given as routine doses have clinical promise. Further research is required to clarify their safety and efficacy for various indications.
The reader will judge if the expensive, complicated, and time-consuming effort to record nocturnal erectile activity is or is not useful anymore for the patient and for orienting the treatment choices.
The presence of LUTS is associated with ED with more severe LUTS being associated with higher degree of ED in men.
In the context of increased regulatory scrutiny, increasing off-label use of testosterone, formulation and dosing issues, increased patient awareness of FSD and HSDD, and overall favorable physician sentiment, the completion of the LibiGel clinical development program and an FDA approval will meet the demand for the first safe and effective FDA-approved treatment of HSDD in postmenopausal women.
Improved EF after BCNI, as shown with RAP, further suggests a role of immunophilin ligands as a protective therapy of CN injury associated erectile dysfunction. Our findings also suggest that select FKBPs, such as FKBP 38 and FKBP 65, may mediate these effects.
Among men in the United States, vibrator use during solo and partnered sexual interactions is common and is associated with a wide array of positive sexual health characteristics. Future research should continue to explore ways in which men incorporate vibrators into solo sexual acts, partnered sexual play, and sexual intercourse.
In this study, testosterone use was not associated with a significant increase in breast cancer risk.
In marital relationships, women are at a higher risk of coerced anal sex if subjected to other types of sexual or non-sexual violence. Higher rates of psychopathology and poorer marital relationships are also allied to self-reported anal sexual coercion.
This data clearly shows that the number of cardiovascular risk factors is an essential predictive factor for sexual function following surgery. Only hyperlipidemia may play a predictive role for the future sexual function of patients undergo CABG.
Vibrator use among women is common, associated with health-promoting behaviors and positive sexual function, and rarely associated with side effects. Clinicians may find these data useful in responding to patients' sexual issues and recommending vibrator use to improve sexual function. Further research on the relationships between vibrator use and sexual health is warranted.
Results provide preliminary support for the effectiveness of PFPT in treating the pain of PVD, as well as some of the sexual and cognitive correlates of PVD. The results also indicate the need for large-scale, randomized studies of the effectiveness of PFPT in comparison and in conjunction with other treatment options.
The results are consistent with evidence that specifically PVI frequency, rather than other sexual activities, is associated with sexual satisfaction, health, and well-being. Inverse associations between satisfaction and masturbation are not due simply to insufficient PVI.
Maintaining a WC level below 102 cm and achieving the recommended amount of moderate-intensity physical activity (&gt;or =150 min/week) is associated with the maintenance of proper erectile function, regardless of BMI level. These findings suggest that the clinical screening for ED risk should include the assessment of WC and physical activity level in addition to BMI.
Consistent with pharmacokinetic predictions, data from clinical trials indicate that once-daily use of low-dose tadalafil is a safe and effective treatment for men with ED.
Old rats without obvious comorbidities were capable of penile erections, but those erections were accompanied by reduced ICP responses to cavernous nerve stimulation, implying apparently reduced penile rigidity. Taken together our current observations indicate that ICP, ICP/BP, and VPE provide useful metrics/indices of erectile capacity/function, and, moreover, that improved understanding of the inter-relationships among these parameters provides a frame work for further exploration of the mechanistic basis for age-related erectile dysfunction.
Long-term and current depressive symptoms, a decreased sexual desire, and low serum free testosterone levels are associated in middle-aged men. Hypogonadism per se and as a cause of decreased sexual desire may be a contributory and possibly treatable factor underlying male depression.
The findings highlight the need for hormonal status assessment in middle-aged depressive men.
Men treated for testicular cancer had higher risk of having low sexual desire and erectile dysfunction 3 to 5 years after completion of therapy than comparators. These sexual dysfunctions were not significantly associated with treatment intensity or hypogonadism.
Low emotional intelligence seems to be a significant risk factor for low orgasmic frequency. Consideration of this behavioral risk factor may need to be incorporated into research into FOD and possible treatment approaches.
ED, OD, and DL are highly prevalent in men with long-standing type I diabetes. All three sexual dysfunctions cause bother in men with DM, but ED causes more general sexual bother and likely has a greater overall impact on quality of life. Our data underscore the importance of asking men with DM about their sexual function and point to the need for further research to investigate disorders of orgasm and desire.
These pilot studies clearly indicate the smooth muscle relaxant effect of H(2)S in female genital tract, mediating through cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate, nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate and K(+)(ATP) channels. Taken together with biochemical and molecular evidences for endogenous formation, H(2)S pathway could be a contributing factor in female sexual responses.
PDE5 dysregulation seems to be an underline pathogenetic mechanism of thalassemia intermedia-associated priapism. It appears that PDE5is might have a role in the clinical management of such patients and their preventive efficacy warrants further testing in clinical trials.
ED, highly prevalent in this cohort, did not identify HF patients on optimal medical therapy at increased risk for mortality. Among the HF patients with ED, HF type was not associated with increased risk for mortality whereas PVD was independently associated with a statistically significant increase in mortality.
Bladder perforation can be caused by penile implant revision even when the old reservoir is not manipulated. If this complication occurs, it can be surgically managed immediately. This can also potentially be avoided.
Down-regulation of the endothelial cell-to-cell junctions and decreased endothelial content in the corpus cavernosum might play a major role in the deterioration of erectile function in hypercholesterolemic mice.
This is the first animal experimental study that demonstrates changes in the arteries of the corpora cavernosa after fractionated irradiation to the prostatic area. The preliminary data suggests that erectile dysfunction after radiotherapy might be caused by radiation damage to the arterial supply of the corpora cavernosa.
EEG neuroimaging has already been proven as a strong worthwhile research tool. Combining this approach with standard EEG waveform analyses in sexual medicine may provide a better understanding of the neural activity underlying the human sexual response in both healthy and clinical populations.
Among ISSM members post-RP penile rehabilitation is widely practiced, commenced early, and based predominantly on PDE5 inhibitors and intracavernosal injections. Clinicians who perform RP or see over 50 such patients per year are the most likely to perform rehabilitation. Cost represents the most common reason for rehabilitation neglect.
The present study does not confirm the hypothesis that loss of olfactory function directly impacts on sexual appetite. It seems that depression caused by olfactory loss is the main cause for the self-reported decrease in sexual appetite as the onset of olfactory dysfunction.
The prevalence of ED and the concerns about it were high in these diabetic patients. ED severity was the major determinant of their treatment-seeking decision, whereas only few of them had ever sought professional help. Routine screening of ED in diabetic patients is recommended.
Injection of fillers for girth augmentation of the penile shaft may result in delayed complications including migration, granulomatous reaction, and resorption that may occur beyond the follow-up span of the currently available study that recommends its use.
The accuracy of stifle computed tomography arthrography for the diagnosis of tears to the medial meniscus was found to be good. It is a minimally invasive and repeatable technique, which does not require general anaesthesia or specialist training to obtain the images. The ability to reliably diagnose meniscal injury without the need for surgery may be advantageous, particularly in dogs which had previously had surgery for cranial cruciate ligament insufficiency.
Segmental caudal vena cava aplasia is a vascular congenital anomaly in the dog that can be associated with thrombosis and portosystemic shunts. Computed tomographic angiography and magnetic resonance angiography are excellent tools to demonstrate the complex vascular anatomy and to guide treatment planning for portosystemic shunts and thrombolytic therapy.
The Sirius rescue sheet, used in addition to warmed gel pads, led to higher intraoperative body temperatures in small breed dogs undergoing surgical procedures to the extremities and the head. The cost-effectiveness and ease of handling make this a useful addition to clinical practice.
We conclude that computed tomography is satisfactory for evaluation of canine intranasal neoplasia, and no clinically relevant benefit is gained using magnetic resonance imaging for intranasal neoplasia without extent into the cranial cavity.
VATS lobectomy and thoracotomy demonstrated similar 5-year survivals. However, VATS lobectomy was associated with fewer complications and shorter length of hospital stay.
Resection of benign solitary fibrous tumors of the pleura carries an excellent prognosis. Larger tumors are more likely to be malignant. Both benign and malignant tumors can recur. Although prolonged survival after resection of malignant tumors is possible, recurrence is common.
Patterns of relapse differ significantly between patients with thymic carcinoma and those with thymoma, with lower progression-free survival, earlier onset, and more distant relapses in patients with thymic carcinoma. Given the greater propensity for distant failures, the inclusion of systemic therapy in the treatment of thymic carcinoma might take on greater importance. Despite significantly higher rates of distant relapse, good overall survival in patients with thymic carcinoma can be achieved.
Airway reconstruction with autologous cervical skin flaps scaffolded with costal cartilages is a novel approach to replace long segments of resected trachea. This preliminary study demonstrates excellent respiratory function and survival in large animals undergoing resection of more than 50% of their native trachea. Use of cervical skin flaps buttressed with costal cartilage is a promising solution for long-segment tracheal replacement.
Cell-cycle protein expression, and namely the combination of high p53, low p21, and low p27 expression, may have a potential prognostic importance in recurrent intrathoracic thymomas.
Aortic arch repair with branched open stent grafting is an effective technique with satisfactory early results. In midterm analysis, cervical branch events were acceptably rare and controllable. This technique could be an attractive alternative to conventional total arch replacement.
In this analysis, use of intra-aortic balloon pump was associated with improved diastolic and mean blood flow in bypass grafts. Arterial and sequential grafts were associated with greater improvements in blood flow and surplus graft flow. Graft failure was associated with poor transit-time flow results, high pulsatility index values, and absent surplus graft flow.
In high-risk patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction having coronary artery bypass surgery, both myocardial viability and left ventricular dyssynchrony are important predictors of perioperative outcome. Assessment of myocardial viability and left ventricular dyssynchrony should be a routine part of the preoperative evaluation of these patients.
Double valve surgery for active endocarditis remains technically challenging and associated with significant morbidity and mortality perioperatively and in the longer term. Outcomes are worse in those who have prosthetic valve endocarditis.
The results of the current data showed superior early and late patency rates of coronary artery bypass grafting with radial artery to aorta anastomosis compared with left internal thoracic artery-radial artery composite grafting.
Percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation provides an effective transcatheter treatment strategy to prolong the lifespan of right ventricle-pulmonary artery conduits after the Ross procedure, reducing the reoperation burden on patients with aortic valve disease.
At midterm follow-up, Fontan patients were in acceptable clinical condition, with preserved global ventricular function, moderately decreased exercise capacity, and NT-pro-BNP levels within reference range. Systemic ventricular mass was elevated, however, suggesting contractility-afterload mismatch. Long-term consequences for ventricular function merit further investigation.
Total Fontan cardiac index was 2.9 L x min(-1) x m(-2), with normal pulmonary flow splits (55% to the right lung). Inferior vena caval contribution to total flow increases with body surface area and age, consistent with data from healthy children.
Male sex appears to shorten the interval between pulmonary valve disruption and pulmonary valve replacement, whereas small branch pulmonary artery diameter appears to lengthen the interval. Knowing which factors are detrimental and which are protective might help identify patients who are prone to a more rapid progression of right heart failure from free pulmonary insufficiency, possibly steering them toward more frequent follow-up or more aggressive heart failure medical regimens.
Minimally invasive atrial fibrillation surgery is an effective treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation at 6 months. Continuous event monitoring is necessary to accurately assess treatment results. A more extensive lesion set seems to be required for treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation.
Endovascular treatment for aortic dissection is associated with reasonably low morbidity and mortality. Long-term surveillance is crucial to define more comprehensively the durability of stent graft treatment of aortic dissection and to determine which patients are appropriate candidates for stent graft therapy.
The PAS-Port proximal anastomotic device produces an effective anastomosis with a 9-month patency rate that is comparable with that of a hand-sewn anastomosis. It allows for construction of a proximal anastomosis without aortic clamping and requires less time than a hand-sewn anastomosis.
Methylene blue is an effective near-infrared fluorophore that provides direct visualization of coronary arteriography and cardiac perfusion. In conjunction with approximately 800-nm near-infrared fluorophores, important functional assessments during cardiac surgery are also possible.
We demonstrate the capacity of the heart to tolerate edema greater than that seen in clinical settings without residual effect. Ischemia results in ongoing contractile dysfunction of both isolated cardiomyocytes and whole hearts. We conclude that dysfunction resulting from edema in ex vivo cardiac models is mild and suggest review of the importance given to edema-mediated dysfunction after cardiac surgery.
Postoperative atrial synchronous biventricular and left ventricular pacing and atrial-only stimulation significantly improve systolic function relative to atrial synchronous right ventricular outflow tract pacing. If atrioventricular conduction is prolonged, atrial synchronous biventricular pacing is preferable to atrial-only pacing.
The de-airing technique evaluated in this study is simple, reproducible, controlled, safe, and effective. Moreover, it is cost-effective because the de-airing time is short and no extra expenses are involved.
17beta-estradiol-induced vascular endothelial growth factor production from mesenchymal stem cells appears to be mediated through estrogen receptor-alpha-activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3-mediated hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha expression.
High-level (&gt;or=75%) left ventricular unloading causes right ventricular dilatation and compromised function. Chronic septal damage, however, confers protection by preserving right ventricular dimensions.
The addition of endobronchial ultrasonography to diagnostic bronchoscopy increased the sensitivity for proving the presence of tuberculosis in a population of patients with negative acid-fast bacilli smears or no sputum production.
The differential profile of gene and protein expression of growth factors and their related genes in patients with diabetes and patients without diabetes could be associated with increased edema and weight gain in patients with diabetes after cardiopulmonary bypass/cardioplegic arrest.
Cigarette smoking is associated with the pathophysiologic consequences of extensive respiratory bronchiolitis, which had a significant impact on the recurrence rates of primary spontaneous pneumothorax.
Increased levels of plasma osteopontin are associated with the presence of aortic valve calcification and stenosis. These findings suggest that osteopontin might play a functional role in the pathogenesis of calcific aortic stenosis.
Increasing levels of uric acid are associated with poorer survival after coronary artery bypass grafting. Their prognostic utility is independent of other recognized risk factors, including the European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation.
Controlled reoxygenation on starting cardiopulmonary bypass is associated with reduced myocardial damage, oxidative stress, and cerebral and hepatic injury compared with hyperoxic bypass and similar whole body inflammatory and stress response in cyanotic children undergoing open cardiac surgery.
Microvascular abnormalities correlate with mild cellular rejection, but they do not seem to be predictive for development of cardiac allograft vasculopathy detected by angiography. The presence of lipofuscin in 12-month endomyocardial biopsy specimens may be predictive of development of angiographically confirmed cardiac allograft vasculopathy.
Right ventricular function recovered early after living-donor lobar lung transplantation in the PAH group. In contrast, recovery of left ventricular function required 6 to 12 months. Improved cardiac function was sustained for up to 3 years, suggesting long-term durability of cardiac function recovery after living-donor lobar lung transplantation.
CentriMag use as long as 3 months appears to be safe and cost-effective for bridging selected patients directly to transplant after salvage. Further clinical experience is still needed.
These findings provide evidence for the direct involvement of cFXIII-dependent TG activity in the regulation of platelet functions.
Stimulation of 5-HT2AR on platelets induces TACE-mediated shedding of GPIbalpha, the key adhesion molecule under high shear conditions. Our observations demonstrate a new pathway through which 5-HT could modulate cardiovascular disease.
CHO alpha(IIb)beta3D723H cell protrusions and megakaryocyte proplatelets, like neuronal cell neurites, result from a common integrin-dependent signaling pathway, promoting strongly decreased RhoA activity and leading to microtubule-driven formation of cytoplasmic extensions.
Warfarin reversal algorithms could be simplified with the adoption of this strategy utilizing two doses of PCC, depending on the INR of the patient. This would also lead to cost reductions and, possibly, a reduction in thrombotic risk.
A large proportion of patients with APS and/or SLE give false-positive HIT antigen test results that are presumably related to autoantibodies against PF4, which can be distinguished from true HIT antibodies by EIA for PF4-heparin complexes tested with heparin excess, and by functional assays.
These results suggest a protective effect of dexamethasone on the conformational consequences of L-ASP on antithrombin as a result of exacerbated HSR and UPR that help to explain the reduced risk of thrombosis reported in patients that follow this scheme of treatment.
These results suggest that the levels of TF-positive MPs can be used as a biomarker for evaluating the risk of disseminated intravascular coagulation in endotoxemia.
These unique structural attributes distinguish AVE5026 from the LMWH class. Based on these data in well-established arterial and venous thrombosis models, AVE5026 could represent a valuable alternative in thrombosis prevention with an improved benefit-risk profile as compared to that of enoxaparin.
Our study demonstrates that the presence of LAC, and elevated aCL IgG and aPS IgG antibodies are risk factors for stroke.
Acquired fibrinogen deficiency seems to be the leading determinant in dilutional coagulopathy, and ex vivo addition corrected the coagulopathy completely.
ARC1779 inhibited botrocetin-induced platelet aggregation (IC90 approximately 300 nM) and shear force-induced platelet aggregation (IC95 approximately 400 nM). It reduced adhesion of platelets to collagen-coated matrices and formation of platelet thrombi on denuded porcine arteries. ARC1779 also inhibited the formation of occlusive thrombi in cynomolgus monkeys. We have discovered a novel anti-VWF aptamer that could have therapeutic use as an anti-VWF agent in the setting of VWF-mediated thrombosis.
The propositus had normal von Willebrand factor (VWF):ristocetin cofactor activity (RCo) and high VWF antigen (VWF:Ag) values, with a low VWF:RCo/VWF:Ag ratio (0.51). No abnormalities were found in his daughter, except for the reduced triplet structure in plasma VWF and diminished ultralarge VWF (ULVWF) multimers in platelets. Three mutations were identified in the propositus: 604C&gt;T (R202W), 4748G&gt;A (R1583Q), and 2546G&gt;A (C849Y). The amounts of secreted recombinant VWF (rVWF) were apparently increased for R202W (130%), R202W-R1583Q (131%), and R202W-R1583Q/WT (121%), reduced for C849Y (72%) and C849Y/WT (83%), and normal for R1583Q (107%) and R202W-R1583Q/C849Y (102%). In cell lysates, higher values were found in association with the C849Y mutation. A normal multimeric pattern was found in R1583Q rVWF, mainly dimers in R202W rVWF, and intermediate molecular weight multimers in C849Y rVWF. Hybrid R202W-R1583Q/WT and C849Y/WT rVWFs had a nearly normal multimeric pattern, whereas in hybrid R202W-R1583Q/C849Y rVWF there was a loss of large/intermediate multimers.
The propositus phenotype seems to be due to mutations R202W and C849Y, both affecting the VWF multimerization process and, for C849Y rVWF, intracellular survival. The absent triplet multimeric structure in the propositus and its reduction in his daughter appears to be related to the lack of ULVWF multimers, which mainly contribute to the formation of satellite bands.
The data demonstrate that alternatively spliced isoforms of TFPI are temporally expressed in mouse tissues at the level of protein production. TFPIalpha and TFPIbeta are produced in embryonic tissues and in placenta while adult tissues produce almost exclusively TFPIbeta.
The differences in susceptibility to cleavage of rVWF by different species need to be considered when interpreting the physiology of human rVWF from results of tests in animal models.
The inhibitory effect of R406 provides direct evidence of a role for Syk in GPVI, CLEC-2 and integrin alphaIIbbeta3 signaling in human platelets. Further, the results demonstrate a critical role for Syk in mediating tyrosine phosphorylation of CLEC-2, suggesting a novel model in which both Src and Syk kinases regulate tyrosine phosphorylation of the C-type lectin receptor leading to platelet activation.
Src kinases and the Rac GTPases mediate independent pathways for PLCgamma2 activation downstream of alpha2beta1.
We found an extremely rare event of complete allele-specific alternative splicing for FXIII-B. The FXIII-B*3 isoform had a distinct C-terminal peptide, while the FXIII-B*2 and FXIII-B*4 isoforms had His95 to Arg and Glu368 to Val substitutions, respectively, which led to differential isoelectric points of these isoforms. Such variations in the amino acid sequence of FXIII-B may have profound effects on its structure-function relationship, plasma FXIII levels, and disease susceptibility.
We demonstrated that DOX can directly induce platelet cytotoxicity through ROS generation, decreased glutathione levels, and protein thiol depletion. We believe that this study provides important evidence for the role of DOX-induced platelet cytotoxicity in the development of thrombocytopenia in DOX-treated patients.
Liraglutide once a day provided significantly greater improvements in glycaemic control than did exenatide twice a day, and was generally better tolerated. The results suggest that liraglutide might be a treatment option for type 2 diabetes, especially when weight loss and risk of hypoglycaemia are major considerations.
The use of an oral factor Xa inhibitor in patients stabilised after an acute coronary syndrome increases bleeding in a dose-dependent manner and might reduce major ischaemic outcomes. On the basis of these observations, a phase III study of low-dose rivaroxaban as adjunctive therapy in these patients is underway.
Stage-adapted management with surgery for stage I disease, and combined surgery and chemotherapy for stage II, III, and IV disease could improve the effectiveness of treatment for placental-site trophoblastic tumours. Use of 48 months since antecedent pregnancy as a prognostic indicator of survival could help select patients for risk-adapted treatment.
The efficacy of NECT is non-inferior to that of eflornithine monotherapy. Since this combination treatment also presents safety advantages, is easier to administer (ie, infusion every 12 h for 7 days vs every 6 h for 14 days), and potentially protective against the emergence of resistant parasites, it is suitable for first-line use in HAT control programmes.
This pilot study showed the feasibility of the use of case vignettes to assess the quality of clinical practice in CLL. The initial results identified deviations from the published guidelines. A large-scale European survey will commence in a few months.
Demographic and clinical characteristics of our series are similar to those previously reported, confirming its immunotherapy-responsive condition. Chronic presentation or normal MRI does not exclude the syndromic diagnoses, and the coexistence of RBD, hyponatraemia or inflammatory CSF are especially useful to make the diagnoses in these cases.
APC is a safe and effective technique for the treatment of GAVE. The recurrence rates increase gradually over time. Early action on recurrence would require improved clinical follow-up and blood test monitoring.
In our study, the scales of depression, anxiety, impulse to thinness and corporal dissatisfaction improved in patients with MO after bariatric surgery. Some baseline psychometric variables may predict a favourable postsurgical evolution of these patients.
The increase in the number of immigrants in Spain since the second half of the 90s explains the increase in the rate of abortions between 1991 and 2005 in women aged 30 years and older.
In this study cTp-I was not a proper biomarker of the size of pulmonary vessel occluded, the degree of hemodynamic derangement or short-term mortality. The delay in diagnosis could influence the usefulness of cTp-I.
Free fibula transfer for complex spinal reconstruction is a reliable means of obtaining bony union for complex lumbar or sacral resections where traditional bone grafting techniques may not be technically feasible.
The applied protocol demonstrates the effectiveness of such a multistage and interdisciplinary approach for female-to-male transsexuals, offering an essential improvement of their quality of life, concerning their successful integration into the reassigned gender position in the society.
A serum- and feeder-free culture system using Epilife medium may grow human corneal epithelial equivalents, minimizing the risk of contamination during culture. The technique may also be useful for the clinical application of limbal stem cell culture.
Our study found no link between polymorphisms in APOE, p53, and p21 genes and POAG in Turkish patients, although a larger sample is required to elucidate the role of these polymorphisms in the pathogenesis and course of glaucoma.
This study confirms the presence and functional role of all five mAChRs in human and mouse SFs. These results show that proliferative responses of SFs to muscarinic receptor stimulation are mediated via the activation of the classical MEK-ERK-MAPK cascade.
The infrahyoid flap seems to be an excellent flap for oral, oropharynx and superior facial part reconstruction. It can be harvested easily in the same operation area.
A narrow pectoralis major flap has to be harvested between the acromioxyphoid line and the lateral border of the pectoralis major.
RNFL thickness measurements between Stratus OCT and Cirrus OCT cannot be directly compared. Clinicians should be aware that measurements are generally higher with Stratus than with Cirrus except when the RNFL is very thin, as in severe glaucoma. This difference must be taken into account if comparing Stratus measurements with Cirrus measurements.
There were significant differences in RNFL thickness and normative classification as determined by Stratus OCT and Cirrus HD-OCT despite an excellent correlation of RNFL thickness measurement. Overall sensitivity and specificity were higher with Cirrus OCT. These findings are particularly relevant when an individual undergoes longitudinal follow-up with different OCTs.
The expected refraction in pseudophakic eyes differed significantly from that in phakic eyes by the IOLMaster depending on the IOL formulae used for the calculation rather than the type of IOL. An adjustment of target refraction by 0.20 to 0.65 D toward the hyperopic side of the desired refraction could be considered when using optical biometry data in pseudophakic eyes to achieve postoperative emmetropia.
The results of this study suggested that even though the pupil and crystalline lens are affected in patients with Marfan's syndrome, these patients have the same ability to accommodate as normal subjects.
Anterior stromal puncture by Nd:YAG laser is an effective and simple procedure to treat recurrent corneal erosion. It can ameliorate the frequency of attacks and the intensity of pain.
The lower eyelid retractors in Caucasians consist of clear double layers. In this regard, no differences were detected between Caucasian and Asian eyelid anatomic features.
This study verified that ERM recurrence arises from remnant ERM components on the ILM, which proliferate using the ILM as a scaffold, and that complete ILM removal seems to reduce the risk of recurrence. Brilliant blue G with good affinity for the ILM facilitates simultaneous ERM and ILM peeling in many cases, and BBG contact with the retina in the second staining has no apparent effect on visual acuity. Double BBG staining and double peeling is useful for ERM treatment.
For monocular visual acuity based on ETDRS charts to be in the normal range, it must be better than 20/50 for 5-year-olds and better than 20/40 for 6- to 12-year-olds. Normal interocular acuity difference includes values of less than 2 logMAR lines. Normative ETDRS visual acuity values are not as good as norms reported for adults, suggesting that a child's visual acuity results should be compared with norms based on data from children, not with adult norms.
Results from this initial clinical trial evaluating intravitreal microplasmin show the drug to be well tolerated and capable of inducing a pharmacologic PVD in some patients. These results warrant evaluation of microplasmin in larger, controlled trials.
The amniotic basement membrane facilitates epithelial cell migration and adhesion. The amniotic stroma supports CSDCs and epithelial cells. Repopulation of the amniotic stroma by CSDCs migrating through breaks in Bowman's zone integrates the amnion with corneal tissue and allows for rebuilding of corneal stroma. Over time, some CSDCs may revert to the resting keratocyte immunophenotype.
The TA concentration in human aqueous could stay above therapeutic concentration for 150 days (5 half-lives with remaining TA concentration of 104 ng/ml) after a 20-mg intravitreal injection, suggesting an even longer therapeutic concentration of TA in vitreous.
Latanoprost, bimatoprost, and timolol are the most effective IOP-lowering agents in patients with NTG.
Although the diagnostic performance and the strength of the structure-function association were comparable between Cirrus HD-OCT and Stratus OCT RNFL measurements, Cirrus HD-OCT demonstrated lower measurement variability compared with Stratus OCT with significant differences at 1, 3, 4, and 8 to 11 o'clock. The poor agreement was likely related to the different inherent characteristics of the 2 OCT systems.
The AcrySof phakic angle-supported IOL yielded excellent refractive correction and predictability with acceptable safety in subjects with moderate-to-high myopia. These 1-year interim analysis findings demonstrate preliminary support for the safety and efficacy of this IOL.
The use of fascia lata autografts for pediatric congenital ptosis resulted in high functional success rates in both the short-term and long-term. In contrast, whereas cosmetic success rates were high in the short-term, they decreased by 6 months after surgery. This deterioration in cosmetic outcome was the result of gradual elevation of lid height, medial inversion of eyelashes, and poor lid creases, possibly resulting from contracture of the grafted fascia lata and the anatomic characteristics of Asian eyelids.
BAT results are affected by dilation half of the time and can be adjusted by the change in VA from dilation to predict undilated BAT results.
Capillary bed loss throughout the vascularized posterior retina is characteristic of AP-ROP and may exacerbate retinopathy.
Periocular triamcinolone is beneficial in reducing the risk of macular edema up to 18 months after plaque radiotherapy for uveal melanoma and significantly reduces the risk of moderate vision loss and poor visual acuity in these patients.
Presence of SCI may be an independent risk factor for visual field progression in patients with NTG.
In the adult population of Greater Beijing, approximately 3% of the population aged 45+ years underwent cataract surgery, the prevalence of which was associated with age, angle-closure glaucoma, and hemorrhagic retinopathy. One of 10 subjects who underwent cataract surgery had a BCVA visual of less than 6/18, and 1 of 5 subjects had a PVA of less than 6/18. Low postoperative visual acuity was associated with rural region, undercorrection of refractive error, and hemorrhagic retinopathy.
The practice of adjusting the IOP change in the treated eye by the IOP change in the untreated eye--the monocular drug trial--is no more informative than using the treated eye's unadjusted IOP change, and both of these methods are poor predictors of long-term IOP reduction with latanoprost.
In this series, P.E.R.F.E.C.T. for PTERYGIUM resulted in a zero recurrence rate (2 patients lost to follow-up) with few complications and a good cosmetic appearance.
Histopathologic inflammation is a risk factor for corneal allograft rejection.
In vivo laser confocal microscopy can identify subclinical corneal abnormalities after nDSAEK such as subepithelial haze, host-recipient interface haze, host stromal needle-shaped materials, and host-recipient interface particles with characteristic giant particles. Further studies with this technology in a large number of patients and long-term follow-up are needed to understand fully the long-term corneal stromal changes after nDSAEK.
The incidence of endophthalmitis was low in both groups. We were unable to show a significant difference in the incidence of endophthalmitis between sutureless 25-gauge and sutured 20-gauge PPV, and conclude that a careful perioperative anti-infection protocol may reduce 25-gauge PPV endophthalmitis risk to that of 20-gauge PPV.
This study uniquely determined the incidence of macular holes in a predominantly Caucasian population.
The new QFT is only slightly superior to the TST in the diagnosis of TB uveitis. Thus, there is an important role for interpreting the QFT together with the TST. This is the first and largest study of its kind to evaluate the use of QFT in the clinical diagnosis of TB uveitis.
Some abnormalities in stereoacuity may exist before the onset of esotropia, but others may result directly from abnormal binocular experience. Several strategies for improving stereoacuity outcomes in esotropia are currently under active investigation. Improved stereoacuity outcomes are associated with better long-term stability of alignment, reduced risk for and severity of amblyopia, improved achievement of sensorimotor developmental milestones, better reading ability, and improved long-term quality of life.
Myopic children demonstrate reduced magnitude and completeness of vergence adaptation to +2 D lenses. The magnitude of vergence adaptation varied with AC/A in both refractive groups; however, the presence of myopia differentiated the amount of adaptation for all AC/A ratios. Conversely, the degree of completeness appears to be primarily associated with the type of refractive error.
The study is the first to explicitly investigate the association between corneal power and refractive error in children with DS. The majority of the DS group have significant refractive errors including an increased prevalence of oblique astigmatism. Corneal curvature in DS is not related to spherical (M) or astigmatic (J0, J45) refractive error. Further research is required to better understand the association between the ocular structures of the DS eye and their impact on functional vision.
In patients with CVI, VEP vernier acuity showed greater deficits than VEP grating acuity and was more similar to the behavioral measures of grating acuity.
Albinism is caused by several different genes. Heterogeneity in clinical phenotype indicates that expressivity is variable.
Although grating acuity is finer than optotype acuity in amblyopic eyes, most children with amblyopia were identified correctly suggesting that grating acuity is an effective clinical alternative for detecting amblyopia.
WSKP is feasible in VGB patients, even in those with developmental delays. WSKP has the potential to detect visual field constriction associated with VGB use.
High-frequency microfluctuations of accommodation appear to be suppressed with thicker ciliary bodies. These variations in accommodation need to be observed in a longitudinal study to better assess the functional significance of their relationship to ciliary body size and refractive error.
UFOV performance shows measurable improvement during middle to late childhood, as has been previously found for abilities such as visual acuity. This is a simple test, which was easily understood and performed by all children in the study. Thus, we believe that our results are suggestive of continuing development in visual attention and processing during this period.
The UFOV is an objective, standardized computer-based test of visual attention. This study indicates suitability for use with children. It remains to be determined how successful this test proves to be in discriminating between normal children and those with early brain injury.
These findings suggest the accuracy of accommodation to minus lens-stimulated accommodation improves throughout the school years and that the degree to which lag increases with increasing demand is related to maximum accommodative amplitude rather than age.
DEM test performance does not correlate with saccadic eye movement skills or symptomatology. However, it is related to reading performance and visual processing speed. This study suggests that although DEM test times may not correlate directly with eye movement parameters, they do correlate with aspects of reading performance and thus may serve a diagnostic role in clinical practice.
The level of cycloplegic refractive error was the best single factor for predicting emmetropization by 18 months of age, with smaller contributions from visual acuity and Mohindra retinoscopy. The lack of correlation between defocus and change in refractive error does not support a simple model of emmetropization in response to the level of hyperopic defocus. Infants were capable of maintaining accurate average levels of accommodation across a range of moderate hyperopic refractive errors at 3 months of age. The association between the change in refractive error and accommodative response suggests that accommodation is a plausible visual signal for emmetropization.
These results are consistent with greater shunting inhibition in the visual cortex of older observers.
Children aged 5 to 12 have sufficiently grasped the concept of seriation. They are able to complete a series with DeltaL* = 5, hence are capable of performing color arrangement tests with similar color differences such as the Lanthony New Color Test and the Farnsworth-Munsell D-15. Given the large number of errors made on DeltaL* = 3 series, it may be concluded that children's performance on the 100-hue test, at least to the age of 12 years, could be unduly influenced by non-color vision factors.
The performance of amblyopic children on the DEM, a commonly used clinical measure of eye movements, has not previously been reported. Under habitual binocular viewing conditions, amblyopia has no effect on DEM outcome scores despite significant impairment of binocular vision and decreased VA in both the better and worse eye.
Similar to vernier alignment acuity, global hyperacuity improves rapidly during infancy and early childhood but takes longer to reach the adult level than resolution acuity. The delayed maturation of global hyperacuity suggests that further development to refine neural circuitry at the cortical level takes place in the second decade of life.
VA test performance in normal pre-school children improves with age. We propose new age-specific thresholds for defining abnormal monocular VA using HOTV optotypes in children between 2 and 5 years of age, for use in screening, clinical practice, and research.
Collectively, the findings lead us to conclude that the repetitive leg movements in late stage embryos are locomotor-related and a fundamental link in the establishment of precocious locomotor skill. The potential importance of differences between embryonic and posthatching locomotion is discussed.
The results of this study suggest that in early stages of infection, A. pleuropneumoniae may modulate expression of genes involved in anaerobic energy generation and in the synthesis of proteins involved in cell wall biogenesis, as well as established virulence factors. Given that many of these genes are thought to be expressed in vivo or involved in virulence, incubation in BALF appears, at least partially, to simulate in vivo conditions and may provide a useful medium for the discovery of novel vaccine or therapeutic targets.
This study is the largest to date of pulse wave analysis in normal pregnancy, the first to report on a subset of women studied longitudinally, and the first to investigate the effect of ethnicity. These data provide the foundation for further investigation into the potential role of this technique in vascular disorders in pregnancy.
There is no indication of a relationship between the patterns of covariant residues specific to each of the four groups discussed above that would give indications of an evolutionary pathway leading from one type of nitrogenase to another. Rather the totality of the data, along with the phylogenetic analysis, is consistent with a radiation of Group I and II NifDs, VnfD and AnfD from a common ancestral sequence. All the data presented here strongly support the suggestion made by some earlier investigators that the nitrogenase family had already evolved in the last common ancestor of the Archaea and Bacteria.
The oncogenic potential of ErbB depends on receptor levels and activation. Nucleolin affects ErbB dimerization and activation leading to enhanced cell growth. The C-terminal region of nucleolin and the ErbB1 NLS-domain mediate this interaction. Moreover, when the C-terminal 212 amino acids region of nucleolin is expressed with ErbB1, it can enhance anchorage independent cell growth. Taken together these results offer new insight into the role of ErbB1 and nucleolin interaction in malignant cells.
The results of all studies showed that blood agar prepared from citrated hair sheep blood is suitable for microbiological tests used in routine identification and susceptibility profiling of human pathogens. The validation of citrated hair sheep blood eliminates the labor-intensive and equipment-requiring process of manual defibrination. Use of hair sheep blood, in lieu of human blood currently used by many developing world laboratories and as an alternative to cost-prohibitive commercial sheep blood, offers the opportunity to dramatically improve the safety and accuracy of laboratory diagnosis of pathogenic bacteria in resource-poor countries.
These results argue that, for native mouse Slo3 channels, the beta4 subunit must be considered as a potential interaction partner and, furthermore, that KCNMB subunits may have functions unrelated to regulation of the Slo1 alpha subunit.
Patients need better access to more potent analgesics to reduce the burden on the health system.
Immunosuppressive therapy including ATG benefits children with moderate aplastic anemia.
A particularly poor survival was observed for RMS of the hand/foot due its marked tendency to spread. Surgical resection is particularly difficult in such cases and a multimodality treatment approach seems crucial to improving their outcome.
In this historical series of children with MDS, in spite of severe transplant-related toxicity, encouraging EFS outcomes have been achieved after AHSCT with good quality of life.
High concentration of nonradiolabeled octreotide may have role in the treatment of medulloblastoma by long-term administration. Concomitant administration of octreotide with widely used cytostatic drugs against medulloblastoma will not have beneficial impact.
The association between the DTI findings of the inferior colliculus and BAEP responses suggests that DTI can be used to assess the integrity of the auditory pathway in preterm infants.
Successful completion of IR procedures in the VLBW infant is possible, but complications still occur in these fragile infants.
THADs are benign entities that can be seen normally in the neonatal age group. When the characteristic appearance is seen on CT, no further imaging is needed.
This is the largest radiological series of extrarenal RTs outside the CNS in infancy. In our series no imaging features were found specific to the diagnosis. A tendency towards large size and mediastinal/paravertebral location were noted. A hypodense solid component on CT and a heterogeneous hyperintensity on T2-W MR images suggest that this tumour should be considered in the routine differential diagnosis of soft-tissue tumours in infancy, in addition to rhabdomyosarcoma.
Owing to the high incidence of spinal cord anomalies in patients with imperforate anus, MRI is the best imaging tool for detecting such anomalies regardless of the level of the lesion.
This MR imaging protocol is a safe and well-tolerated method for evaluating disease activity and extraintestinal manifestations of IBD in children.
Although vallecular cysts are very rare, they should be considered in the differential diagnosis of congenital stridor. When the commonest causes have been ruled out, neck US may be diagnostic. The diagnosis can be confirmed with flexible bronchoscopy or further imaging such as CT or MRI.
The awareness and inclusion of neonatal hemochromatosis in the differential diagnosis of newborns with liver failure and patent ductus venosus has critical treatment implications.
Our results indicate that rifampicin can be formulated into an aggregated nanoparticle form that, once delivered to animals, achieves systemic exposure and extends levels of drug in the lungs.
The novel multi-phase emulsions increase fluidity and conceptually diminish local reactions with respect to the W/O type vaccines produced from the same oil. These features are of great interest for applications in candidate vaccine delivery, especially for further optimization of alternative immunization routes, such as intramuscular, transdermal or mucosal administration.
Antineoplastic proteins were released from a p(SA-RA) polyanhydride implants in a controlled manner, providing efficacy against 9L glioma, while evading neurotoxicity in the cerebellum. The controlled release of Amphibinases forms the potential for a new therapy against brain tumors.
Intravenous co-administration of tacrolimus (0.001 mg/kg) may be a promising way to assess crossover pharmacokinetic study of human or humanized proteinic formulations with multiple dosing schedules in an experimental animal.
Using the present methods, it is possible to predict BA from human oral administration data combined with animal pharmacokinetic data to a certain level without using intravenous injection data.
Our results suggest that our newly synthesized classes of curcumin analogs could be useful as chemopreventive and/or therapeutic agents against cancers.
The profiles were well-described by our PK-PD model, which constitutes a basis for the future development of mechanism-based model for polyphenols on Hcy in this paradigm.
The inhibitor specificities of P-gp, BCRP and MRP2 were shown to be highly overlapping. General ABC inhibitors were more lipophilic and aromatic than specific inhibitors and non-inhibitors. The identified specific inhibitors can be used to delineate transport processes in complex experimental systems, whereas the multi-specific inhibitors are useful in primary ABC transporter screening in drug discovery settings.
A combined pharmacophore and in vitro approach found new, structurally diverse inhibitors for hOCTN2 that may possibly cause clinical significant toxicity such as rhabdomyolysis.
A new minimal-stress model for intranasal administration in freely moving rats has been successfully developed and allows direct comparison with intravenous administration.
Our study highlights the importance of the gastrointestinal lipolysis and the associated phenomena such as the dilution of chyme by biliary and pancreatic secretions in vivo, on the solubilisation of poorly water-soluble drugs formulated with lipid-based excipients.
Chitosan/GMO nanostructures containing PTX are safe and effective administered locally or intravenously. Partially supported by DOD Award BC045664.
The time course of neutropenia following high-dose of chemotherapy and PBSC transplantation was accurately predicted. Higher amount of CD34+ cells in the PBSC transplantation and earlier administration rHuG-CSF were associated with faster haematological recovery.
Simulations were in agreement with perfused liver data which predicted changes in fexofenadine systemic exposure primarily due to altered hepatic uptake. Fexofenadine is not a suitable probe to assess hepatic efflux function based on systemic concentrations. GF120918-sensitive protein(s) mediate fexofenadine biliary excretion in rat liver, whereas in human hepatocytes multiple efflux proteins are involved in fexofenadine hepatobiliary disposition.
ABP presented higher transfection efficacy and safety in HepG2 cells due to the biocompatibility of avidin and the specific interactions between avidin and HepG2 cells.
A key finding is that the convex dependence of maximum flux on lipophilicity arises primarily from variations in stratum corneum solubility, and not from diffusional or partitioning barrier effects at the stratum corneum-viable epidermis interface for the more lipophilic phenols. Our data support a solute structure-skin transport model for aqueous solutions in which permeation rates depend on both partitioning and diffusivity: partitioning is related to P, and diffusivity to solute size and hydrogen bonding.
It appears that both the solubility and pH(max) (the pH of a solution where there is saturation of both ionized and unionized species) of the salts, as well as the base solubility, play important roles in determining the susceptibility of salts to disproportionate. The extent of conversion was also affected by excipient properties, including basicity, solubility, physical state and surface area.
Three optimised nanoparticles have been developed (two uncoated and one HA-coated) and their toxicity on fibroblasts and macrophages has been evaluated: experiments showed the beneficial character of HA-coating in the reduction of toxicity (IC50 raised from 0.7-0.8 mg/mL to 1.8 mg/mL) and suggested that the uncoated chitosan/TPP nanoparticles had toxic effects following internalisation rather than membrane disruption.
Delivery of a model drug to the skin from sub-micron polymeric particle formulations is sensitive to the particle size and the relative hydrophobicity of the carrier.
These results suggest that particles based on PLA polymers may be ideal carriers for hair follicle and sebaceous gland targeting.
This stratifin delivery system has the potential to be used as an anti-fibrogenic factor-associated wound insert for improving post-surgical scarring in closed wound.
Water-soluble divalent cationic salts represent a suitable class of stabilizer of peptide acylation in PLGA microspheres and this study provides an important formulation approach to maximize stabilizer potency.
The results showed that a wide range of errors occurred during the dispensing process. A check performed after the initial medication selection is also necessary to detect and correct dispensing errors. In order to decrease the occurrence of dispensing errors, some practical measures have been implemented in the central pharmacy. But because some dispensing errors may remain undetected, there is a requirement to develop other strategies that reduce or eliminate these errors. The pharmacy staff is widely involved in this duty.
The validated PEP test has the potential to provide the pharmacy profession with valuable information for use education and research. The validation process also provided evidence supporting the hypothesis that moral reasoning in professional ethics in pharmacy is a developmental process, which has profound implications for furthering the understanding of professional behaviour.
Flemish patients were satisfied with pharmacy distribution and services related to OTC medicines. They see an important role for pharmacists and physicians to accompany them in their OTC medicine use. Our results highlighted the need to strengthen communication between patients, pharmacists and physicians. It is also recommended that pharmacists keep an individual record detailing patient use of OTC and prescription medicines.
The total adverse drug reaction incidence of the injection was 0.38% and lower than we expected. Moreover, we observed three new adverse drug reactions, none of which was severe.
The A14-scale showed good internal consistency and a significant correlation with the MMAS suggesting that it merits further investigation.
While further clinical studies are necessary to confirm these findings, using the mean or the median of several visual estimates may be a practical solution for body weight estimation when weighing patients is not possible.
The findings of this study emphasise the necessity of a more precise and efficient documentation system of drug allergies along with the implementation of an electronic CDS for drug allergies that makes physicians aware of patients' drug allergies during the prescribing process.
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes receiving metformin despite having a contraindication was over 80%. However, metformin use in such conditions did not appear to increase the risks of hospitalization and death. No lactic acidosis was reported. Other patient factors than metformin affect the risks of hospitalization and death.
The development and pilot of this screening tool was successful. The prevalence of sleep disorders in the sampled population was high but generally consistent with previous studies on the general population. Furthermore, associations found may form a foundation for a clinical algorithm to identify those at a higher risk of having or developing a sleep disorder. Further work is required to validate this screening tool in the community pharmacy context.
The proposed model can provide insight into physicians' attitudes toward provision of MTM by pharmacists and may be helpful in developing future approaches and policies to further improve this collaborative relationship.
These results suggest that the well documented relationship between conduct disorder, the behavioral phenotype of impulsivity, and problematic alcohol/drug use among adolescents may be moderated by A1 carrier status of the DRD2 gene.
Functions linked to dorsolateral prefrontal cortex may be more impaired in female, whereas functions linked with the temporal lobe may be impaired in both male and female binge drinkers compared to non-binge drinkers. Functions linked to orbitofrontal cortex were not impaired. The increased speed of response in the RTI in binge drinkers may indicate an increased motor impulsivity in binge drinkers.
Fetal echocardiography has a high correlation with postnatal and neonatal echocardiographic findings. Delivery management plans may be based on fetal echocardiogram diagnoses.
Fetal cardiac anomalies can be evaluated adequately by the information gained by 3D and 4D volumes obtained by STIC. Since no single module is sufficiently accurate for the diagnosis of all cardiac anomalies, each of the cardiac anomaly categories requires different and appropriate module of visualization.
Prenatal screening is a common practice worldwide. However, unlike most developed countries, our region has a limited access to prenatal diagnosis and no legal TOP. Those couples who stated that 'reassurance about fetal well-being' was the most important reason to perform prenatal screening had more positive attitudes toward TOP than those who considered this screening important 'to be better prepared to receive the baby'. Our findings can be used to inform and revise current health-care policies.
Both TO and BM lessen peripheric muscularization present in CDH lungs and their effect is cumulative.
Isolated fetal omphalocele is the exception. An additional minor ultrasound finding does not impact a relatively good prognosis with little long-term morbidity. However, this series highlights two areas of caution: (1) one-third were delivered preterm with a 50% rate of demise and (2) in a quarter of cases, an additional major anomaly or BWS was identified in the neonate.
Costello syndrome can be suspected prenatally when polyhydramnios is accompanied by nuchal thickening, hydrops, shortened long bones, abnormal hand posture, ventriculomegaly, large size, and macrocephaly, and especially fetal atrial tachycardia. Consideration should be given for timely prenatal diagnostic studies for confirmative HRAS gene mutations and for maternal treatment of serious fetal arrhythmia.
Metaphysis examination is recommended if fetal femur length measures below the fifth percentile, as normal aspect may rule out achondroplasia.
GGT reference values in amniotic fluid in normal pregnancies were defined for gestational weeks 16 to 22. These data may be useful for differentiating isolated absence of fetal gallbladder from extrahepatic biliary atresia.
Significantly lower concentrations of HO-1, HO-2, SOD and catalase are found in the cellular component of blood from pre-eclamptic patients. The values correlate with the severity of pre-eclampsia. These findings indicate that enhanced oxidative stress and a decrease in the number of anti-oxidant enzymes may be associated with pre-eclampsia.
This study demonstrates that multiplex fluorescent analysis of four STRs is a rapid and simple method to perform genetic diagnosis of HA in families with a history of this disorder.
Cancer diagnosis adversely affects employment status in Korea, and the effects are widespread in almost all sex and age groups. Significant efforts are needed to improve the employment status of cancer patients in Korea, as well as in developing or newly developed countries that have similar social security systems.
Taken together, the findings point out that there is a lack of intervention research in psycho-oncology with adolescents. So far, there is only limited evidence for the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions to improve coping with cancer-associated problems in adolescent patients. Future research needs to be done in this population. In order to establish more conclusive results, larger samples and interventions particularly designed for adolescent patients ought to be studied.
This study found comparative optimism about the risk for developing gastric cancer in a Korean population. It is necessary to increase people's ability to accurately perceive their risk for cancer.
The results in this study should increase the awareness of cancer care professionals about a range of treatment decision evaluation and may help them to target particular patient groups for particular support interventions and informed treatment decision.
During breast cancer treatment, the positive effects of optimism on EWB are partially mediated by a woman's level of self-transcendence. Brief screening of women's optimism may help identify women at risk for psychological distress. Early detection and interventions to promote psychological adjustment throughout the cancer trajectory (e.g. enhancing self-transcendence) should receive attention in future research.
Based on these findings, strategies to increase mammography adherence include implementing a formal reminder system that prompts patients (e.g. postcard, automated telephone call) to schedule an annual mammogram or training clinic staff to automatically schedule an annual mammogram at the time of the current screening appointment.
Approximately 10% of parents have optimistic prognostic estimates in the setting of physician-rated poor prognosis. Families of children with solid tumors and relapsed cancer and parents who were more optimistic were more likely to be optimistic in the poor prognosis setting. More research is needed to understand the impact of such discrepancies in prognosis on processes and outcomes.
Nasal reconstruction has an impact on psychosocial functioning of nasal reconstruction patients. In addition, self-esteem and coping strategy are important determinants of satisfaction with nasal reconstruction, and should be held in mind when treating a patient.
Greater spirituality was associated with better HRQOL and psychosocial function. Meaning/peace closely tracks with HRQOL. Higher faith scores, in the absence of high meaning/peace scores, are negatively associated with HRQOL.
The identification of verbal-semantic memory as a specific problem area has important implications on the planning of future studies with regard to both the examination of underlying pathophysiological mechanisms and the specific effects of these deficits on patients' self-appraisal.
In conclusion, the results of the pilot study indicate that OK Onco is appropriate for paediatric survivors of childhood cancer. Implementation of the intervention is the next challenge.
Our findings underscore the need for psychosocial interventions that facilitate healthy spousal communication and address the sexual rehabilitation needs of patients and their partners after prostate cancer treatment. Although some couples may be reluctant to engage in constructive cancer-related discussions about sexual problems, such discussions may help alleviate the negative impact that sexual problems have on prostate cancer patients' and their partners' marital adjustment.
Findings appear to support the overall social resilience of survivors of childhood cancer. Certain subsets of survivors, however, may be at greater risk for difficulties in their close relationships as adults and therefore may be appropriate targets for intervention. Healthcare providers should routinely assess developmentally salient issues like love/romance that are important markers of identity development and ultimately impact long-term quality of life for survivors.
These data suggest that the H3 agonists may have anxiolytic-like effects similar to those of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors but not benzodiazepine anxiolytics and represent a novel strategy for the treatment of some anxiety disorders in which selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are prescribed.
The present experiments provide evidence of a hypofunctional dopamine system that is not associated with an escalation in drug intake or reflected in measures of acoustic startle.
Repeated AMPH exposure leads to relatively long-lasting increases in risky choice, as well as sensitization to the effects of acute AMPH on different forms of cost/benefit decision making. These findings suggest that maladaptive decision-making processes exhibited by psychostimulant abusers may be caused in part by repeated drug exposure.
These findings may be explained by the formation of an association between the negative mood and reduced serotonin states during the first visit. As such, these findings provide preliminary support for the associative hypothesis of recurrence in depression.
Such associations might therefore explain the discrepancy between the effects of ATD in recovered- and never-depressed individuals and may, in turn, explain why an episode of depression increases the risk of subsequent episodes.
The data suggest HTR2A A-1438G/T102C polymorphisms may predict negative symptoms performance upon aripiprazole treatment in schizophrenic patients as modified by clinical factors.
These findings suggest that increased medial prefrontal (BA10) activation and BA10-amygdala connectivity may counteract the risk for MDD in healthy carriers of 5-HTT low-expression alleles, while this protective factor might be lost in patients who actually suffer from MDD. Prefrontal-limbic regulation in risk populations could be a target of early interventions and should be the focus of further research.
The learned helplessness model with PND 21 rats predicts the efficacy of escitalopram and the lack of efficacy of desipramine seen in the treatment of pediatric depression. These findings suggest that the use of PND 21 rats in a modified learned helplessness procedure may be a valuable model of human pediatric depression that can predict pediatric antidepressant efficacy and be used to study antidepressant mechanisms involved in pediatric depression.
These data suggest that TRPV1 in the ventral mPFC tonically inhibits anxiety-like behavior. TRPV1 could facilitate defensive responses opposing, therefore, the anxiolytic-like effects reported after local activation of CB1 receptors.
These results offer a more efficient procedure for experimentally promoting smoking abstinence, while providing further evidence that an initial period of sustained abstinence produces a profile of changes consistent with an overall lowering of relapse risk.
These paradoxical findings are not consistent with the notion that reward and locomotion are mediated by a common substrate; this dissociation may be useful in modeling psychiatric disorders such as mixed depressive states. In addition, our findings suggest that central reward circuitry may constitute a possible target for rationally designed therapeutics for depression.
The results suggest that atomoxetine exerts its beneficial effects on SSRT via its action on noradrenaline re-uptake, as the specific DAT blocker GBR-12909 and serotonin reuptake blockade had only minor effects on SSRT. The speeding of the go reaction time by dopamine reuptake blockade is consistent with the hypothesis that the hypothetical stop and go processes are modulated by distinct monoaminergic systems.
The contrasting effects of WIN in Wistar and SHR, and the higher resistance of adolescent rats to the aversive and rewarding effects of WIN in these two strains suggests that both adolescence and the ADHD-like profile exhibited by the SHR strain constitute factors that influence the motivational properties of cannabinoids.
Collectively, these results indicate that behaviorally relevant doses of MDMA do not induce behavioral stimulant or dopamine transporter-mediated effects in nonhuman primates.
Despite nominally common mechanisms of action and often presumed biological equivalence, the NMDA antagonists tested produced very diverse effects on the expression of instrumental action. Other aspects of responding were left intact, including switching and matching behaviours, and the ability to respond to conditional stimuli. The implications of such findings with regard to animal modelling of schizophrenic psychotic symptoms are manifold.
The results implicate the Sig-1R system in alcohol drinking, identifying a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of alcohol use disorders.
The rate of congenital anomalies in the high-risk pregnant women group was 56.2%. Most of the central nervous system malformations were diagnosed intrauterus. Changes in the amniotic fluid were the factors more strongly associated with congenital anomalies.
this methodology has allowed us to identify spatial clusters for the variables cesarean section and mother's schooling, besides deepening our knowledge on birth profile in the municipalities, presenting good potential on how to direct actions for specific areas.
it is a fact that the vaginal mucosa can be colonized and infected by yeasts, with several Candida species present. Nevertheless, Candida albicans is the most prevalent in the vaginal mucosa of adult women. It is evident the emergence of non-albicans Candida species, some of them with intrinsic resistance to azolics, such as Candida glabrata, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, and Candida guillermondii, which can be explained by the inadequate use of medicines and empirical treatment.
obesity has shown to be an important risk factor for the surgery failure in the first follow-up year. Results show that patients with BMI&gt;30 have 3.7 times more chance of being non-continent one-year after Burch's surgery than non-obese patients.
the lactobacillus species more prevalent in women without vulvovaginitis, isolated in selective culture milieu and identified by molecular methods were L. crispatus, L. jensenii and L. gasseri. Besides the fact of being more prevalent, these strains also presented better production of H2O2, and reached lower pH values in the culture milieu.
post-menopausal women, HT users and non-users, admitted at Healthcare Units, have not presented differences in global quality of life.
The most intense craving can lead nicotine-dependent individuals to use confrontive coping strategies that make them unable to control their emotions or to face the situations of high risk of relapse. This finding demonstrates that the treatment of smokers should include psychological education about the pitfalls of using these types of strategy and should teach them new types of coping strategies for craving management.
The level of knowledge about drugs displayed by educators was average and not influenced by the professional's academic qualifications. In contrast, their attitudes were predominantly empathic and directly associated to their academic qualifications and inversely associated to the amount of time they had spent in that position.
In this study, no significant seasonal differences were observed in the occurrences of suicides, with the exception of the male sample. The differences observed did not correspond with the pattern described in studies carried out in temperate zones. Some of the climatic particularities of the tropical zone might explain the atypical pattern of seasonality of suicides found in large populations within an urban area and tropical zone.
although a causal relationship between dependence on illicit drugs and depression cannot be determined, comparison of the sequence of events point to the occurrence of depression later in life than dependence. It remains to be determined whether depression is a comorbidity of dependence, sharing etiological factors, or a consequence of drug abuse and/or abstinence.
Depressed patients had more suicide attempts over time, which could be explained by the higher prevalence of bipolar II subtype in this group, whereas manic/hypomanic patients had a lifelong history of more frequent violent suicide attempts, not explained by any of the variables studied. Our results support the evidence that non-violent suicide attempters and violent suicide attempters tend to belong to different phenotypic groups.
The mental component of quality of life was the most impaired component, indicating the importance of caring for residents' mental health, especially during their first year and when they are overloaded with critical patients.
This was the first study evaluating driving under the influence of alcohol in a representative sample of the Brazilian population. The prevalence of DUI found is alarming, and possibly underestimated in the sample. Results demonstrate the need for more studies on this association and show directions towards preventive strategies for the specific high-risk group of male drivers with previous problems with alcohol and unfavorable opinions about prevention policies.
Despite these negative findings, more comprehensive polymorphism coverage within the NFKBIL1 is warranted in larger samples. Populations with different ethnic backgrounds should also be studied.
The results of the present investigation do not provide evidence for the association between the -62A/T NFKBIL1 polymorphism and obsessive-compulsive disorder in this Brazilian sample.
Our results did not replicate previous descriptions of an association between a worse cognitive performance and the presence of the met allele of the val66met brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene polymorphism.
Our findings suggest that some of the most commonly used Brazilian attention-based tests - especially the sustained attention and working memory tests - may be useful to help distinguish subjects with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder from control subjects.
Patients taking CB1 receptor antagonists should be carefully investigated for psychiatric side-effects. These drugs should not be prescribed for those already suffering from mental disorders. Nevertheless, the development of new compounds targeting the endocannabinoid system for the treatment of several conditions would be necessary and opportune.
The Brazilian population is one of the most heterogeneous populations in the world, formed mainly by the admixture between European, African and Native American populations. Although the admixture process is not a particularity of the Brazilian population, much of the history and social development in Brazil underlies the ethnic melting pot we observe nowadays. Such ethnical heterogeneity of the Brazilian population obviously brings some problems when performing genetic studies. However, the Brazilian population offers a number of particular characteristics that are of major interest when genetic studies are carried out, such as the presence of isolated populations. Thus, differences in the genetic profile and in the exposure to environmental risks may result in different interactions and pathways to psychopathology.
Unable to establish a protocol of recommendations about the type and intensity of systematized physical activity required to produce benefits in cognitive functioning. However, the practice of regular systematized physical activity appears to contribute to the preservation or improvement of cognitive functions in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Bipolar disorder patients present impaired recognition of disgust, fear and sadness that can be partially attributed to mood-state. In mania, they have difficult to recognize fear and disgust. Bipolar disorder patients were more accurate in recognizing emotions than depressive and schizophrenic patients. Bipolar disorder children present a tendency to misjudge extreme facial expressions as being moderate or mild in intensity.
Affective and cognitive deficits in bipolar disorder vary according to the mood states. Follow-up studies re-testing bipolar disorder patients after recovery are needed in order to investigate if these abnormalities reflect a state or trait marker and can be considered an endophenotype. Future studies should aim at standardizing task and designs.
Reference ranges for NBL in a Chinese population suitable for screening for aneuploidy between 11 and 13 + 6 weeks' gestation have been derived. The NBL in Chinese fetuses is similar to that of other ethnic groups. However, unlike the determination of presence vs. absence of the nasal bone, NBL measurement is unlikely to further improve screening for aneuploidy.
A thick fetal corpus callosum is usually associated with other brain anomalies and is part of a neurogenetic syndrome in most cases.
Embryonic brain mantle measurements by intrauterine sonography are feasible, although the invasive nature of this technique limits its usefulness in routine clinical practice. It is possible, however, that further improvement in the resolution of transvaginal sonography will allow accurate and reproducible non-invasive imaging of embryonic brain mantle development in the near future.
The characteristics of the normal FHR pattern are quite defined from early on in gestation, follow a continuous trend with advancing gestation and change abruptly at 42 weeks. Gestational age-related changes are less obvious at the lowest percentiles.
CDMI facilitates acquisition of fetal myocardial ventricular S'. The combination of IUGR and CPR is associated with a reduced left ventricular S', especially in those with reversed UA flow. In this subgroup a left S' below 1.6 cm/s seemed to predict mortality in the perinatal period.
The answer to the question 'Are ethical principles respected when women are proposed ultrasound screening during the first trimester of pregnancy?' is clearly 'No'. Major effort is required to ensure that the decisions made by patients are based on a possibility of true choice.
Cesarean section scars can be detected reliably by ultrasound imaging. Myometrial thickness at the level of the isthmus uteri decreases with the number of Cesarean sections and the frequency of large scar defects increases. Scars with defects are located lower in the uterus than intact scars.
The miscarriage rates (i.e. spontaneous loss and procedure-related loss) after amniocentesis and CVS were 1.4% and 1.9%, respectively. This difference may be explained by the difference in gestational age at the time of the procedures. The miscarriage rate was inversely correlated with the number of procedures performed in a department.
Although endometrial thickness following successful expulsion of the gestational sac is thicker in women who will eventually require surgical intervention after medical abortion, endometrial thickness is not a clinically useful predictor of the subsequent need for D&amp;C.
There is a significant relationship between CRL discrepancy at 7 + 0 to 9 + 6 weeks and the likelihood of subsequent single intrauterine fetal loss. This suggests that spontaneous fetal demise of one twin may be preceded by growth restriction in the first trimester.
This study has validated the new risk algorithm and demonstrated that in combined screening for trisomy 21 based on maternal age, fetal NT and free beta-hCG and PAPP-A the detection rate is about 90% for a 3% false-positive rate.
This is the first study showing that transperineal 3D ultrasound can be used for the assessment of BEEC patients after functional reconstruction. Biometric pelvic floor parameters may be useful in the long-term follow-up of BEEC patients.
Using MTD, the ratios between early and late diastolic myocardial velocities are higher in IUGR fetuses than in AGA fetuses at the IVS and the LV, regardless of the presence of maternal hypertension. MTD may be more sensitive than atrioventricular spectral Doppler for the detection of ventricular diastolic dysfunction in IUGR fetuses.
Advanced maternal age, previous Cesarean section and presence of sponge-like findings in the cervix are risk factors for massive bleeding during Cesarean section in cases of placenta previa, regardless of whether placental adherence is present. Placental location on the scar of a previous Cesarean section and lack of a clear zone are risk factors for placental adherence. When these findings are identified preoperatively, management should be tailored accordingly.
A 3D coronal view of the uterus is useful in the visualization of IUDs. The coronal view showing the entire device and its position within the uterus may help in identifying the cause of pelvic pain and bleeding in patients with an embedded IUD.
Prenatal sonographic diagnosis of CVI cysts is feasible. Its finding in isolation is consistent with favorable postnatal outcome.
Multiple Cesarean sections and retroflexed uteri are risk factors for larger Cesarean scar defects. The size of the Cesarean scar defect is associated with clinical symptoms such as postmenstrual spotting, dysmenorrhea and chronic pelvic pain.
Triplet pregnancies complicated by cervical shortening diagnosed on biweekly TVS surveillance do not appear to benefit from placement of cervical cerclage, based on assessment of gestational age at delivery, birth weight and incidence of very low birth weight infants.
The frequencies of chromosomal imbalances in EDMs decrease as the tumor grade increases. Characteristic chromosomal imbalances in each subtype may play an important role in determination of histological phenotypes and tumor grades. Chromosomal +1q, +5, +7p, +7, -4q, -19q and -22q are alterations which may dictate the biological behaviors of these tumors and the patients' prognosis.
Brain tumors in patients with medically intractable epilepsy are almost always benign and located in the temporal lobe. Most of them represent mixed neuronal-glial tumors and some show transitional features in-between glioneuronal hamartoma and mixed neuronal-glial neoplasm. The similar morphologic pattern and biological behavior of glioneuronal hamartoma and mixed neuronal-glial tumor may suggest a common pathogenetic mechanism.
Primary brain stem injury demonstrates certain distinctive histopathologic changes and measurement of axonal diameters provides an additional quantitative index useful in autopsy diagnosis.
Unusual pathological structures including epithelial structures, in-situ invasion of tumor tissue into the involving olfactory epithelium and exogenous papillary proliferation can be found in ONB, suggesting that ONB may originate from the undifferentiated basal cells of olfactory epithelium, through bipotential differentiation. The presence of tumor necrosis in ONB is a poor prognostic indicator while the presence of mucous cells suggests a good prognosis.
Hemangiopericytoma-solitary fibrous tumor with giant cells is an intermediate soft tissue tumor. It typically involves the orbital or extraorbital regions. Histologically, the tumor should be distinguished from giant cell fibroblastoma, pleomorphic hyalinzing angiectatic tumor of soft part and angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma.
As compared with bcl-6, CD10 and CXCL13 are specific and sensitive markers in diagnosing AITL. Part of the proliferative FDCs in AITL may originate from the germinal centers.
Shh, Ihh, Ptch, and Smo genes may play important roles in the development of cervical cancer. Detection of Hedgehog signaling pathway molecules seems helpful for the early diagnosis of cervical cancer and its precursor lesions, and are potentially therapeutic targets as well.
AZT blocks S/G(2) conversion of TJ905 cells by inhibition of telomerase activity and cyclin A expression, leading to an enhancement of apoptosis and suppression of cell proliferation.
The accuracy of ERCP-guided brush cytology relies on good specimen preparation and application of morphologic criteria. Grading of cytologic atypia is of clinical significance. A "negative" or "low-grade atypia" cytologic diagnosis requires further diagnostic workup to rule out the possibility of underlying malignancy, while a "high-grade atypia" or "malignant" diagnosis is relatively specific in guiding subsequent management of suspected pancreatobiliary malignancy.
AITL is a type of lymphoma originated from the follicular helper T cells. Detailed morphologic assessment and use of immunohistochemical markers are essential for accurate diagnosis.
The current study shows that the prognosis of GCB subtype of DLBCLs is better than that of non-GCB subtype. The expression of bcl-6 protein predicts a better clinical outcome, while the breakage of 3q27 predicts a worse overall survival.
EN-NK/TCL is a mature T-cell and NK-cell neoplasm which can be accurately diagnosed by histologic examination, immunohistochemical study and in-situ hybridization. The prognosis is usually not favorable. Proliferation index of the tumor represents an independent prognostic factor.
SMZL is an indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The main clinical manifestations are splenomegaly and abnormalities in blood counts. The main modality of treatment is splenectomy. Adjuvant fludarabine-based chemotherapy helps to achieve complete remission. In general, the prognosis of this lymphoma type is good. The lymphoma cells predominantly grow in micronodular pattern, with atypical monocytoid B cells rimming around the small B cells, which aggregates in the center. The differential diagnosis includes other small B-cell lymphomas and lymphoid hyperplasia of spleen.
A definitive diagnosis of PTL-U with follicular pattern can be made on the basis of morphologic examination, immunohistochemical assessment and clinical features. Cases with atypical features can further be delineated by molecular analysis. Long-term follow up of these patients is prudent.
BIOMED-2 multiplex tubes TCRgamma(A+B) is suitable for detection of clonal rearrangements of TCR genes in current archival paraffin embedded tissue samples of T-cell malignancies.
Molecular detection of EV71 can be performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue samples from fatally infected patients. Timely and accurate diagnosis of the infection by such molecular approach is crucial for the proper clinical and public health intervention.
KISS-1 gene inhibits the potential of invasion and proliferation of EC-1 cells.
Tiam1 expression correlates with the invasion and metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells.
C-myc could be another protooncogene in addition to c-fos in the fibrous dysplasia disease. P53 protein overexpression could be useful in the diagnosis of FD malignancy and in the prediction of the prognosis of FD. The abnormal expression of the gene p16 might play an important role in the formation of FD. The GNAS1 mutation exist in FD. All of the results indicate that FD could be a neoplasia disease, caused by multiple factors leading to a dysfunction of bone development.
Definitive diagnosis of PES relies on its histopathological characteristics in conjunction with appropriate immunohistochemical findings.
LGFMS is a distinctive low grade fibroblastic sarcoma of young adults. Recognizing the characteristics of the rare entity may help to avoid misdiagnosis. Wide local excision is recommended to avoid local recurrences.
Correlation of clinical, radiologic and pathologic features is important in diagnosis of solitary plasmacytoma of spine. The possibility of multiple myeloma needs to be excluded. Early detection by radiologic examination, local surgical resection, post-operative chemoradiotherapy and long-term follow-up are prudent for successful management of this condition.
The diagnosis of malignancies in giant cell tumor requires correlation of clinical, radiologic and pathologic features. The entities need to be distinguished from other giant cell-rich tumors including primary malignant fibrous histiocytoma and giant cell osteosarcoma.
Basal-like breast cancers in Chinese population has a similar prevalence to that of the western populations. They have distinct clinicopathologic features compared to other non-basal breast cancers, but overlapping with other ER-negative breast cancers. Morphological features are strongly associated with basal-like breast cancers although they are not very specific. The survival of basal-like breast cancers is poorer than luminal A, but similar to the other ER-negative breast cancers, and basal markers are not independent prognostic factors of breast cancers.
Small cell variant of PTCL, NOS represents a rare disease entity which often presents in advanced tumor stage and carries a poor prognosis.
A positive expression of ZAP-70 protein in CLL/SLL suggests a poor prognosis.
There are no specific clinical manifestations obtained in patients with non-compaction of ventricular myocardium, however, the pathologic changes are characteristic and a clinical diagnosis can be made by using echocardiography.
ASC-H strongly predicts the presence of HSIL, HR-HPV may serve as a predict select whether a patient with ASC-H should take colposcopic examination immediately, patients with positive HR-HPV should undergo immediate colposcopic examination, while negative HR-HPV is an excellent predictor of the absence of HSIL.
There was a significant correlation between the polymorphisms of +33C/T sites of IL-4 and +1923C/T sites of IL-13 gene and susceptibility to asthma and increase of the total serum IgE. The IL-4 gene and IL-13 gene may be important candidate genes for asthma.
Matrine inhibited airway inflammation and early airway remodeling in asthmatic mice. The signal transduction of TGF-beta(1) and CTGF maybe involved.
Leptin could aggravate airway inflammation featured by infiltration of neutrophils and enhancement of Th1 type inflammation.
VEGF and its receptors were over-expressed in the sensitized rat model, and involved in angiogenesis and airway remodeling. MK may be effective in reducing allergic airway inflammation and airway remodeling through VEGF and VEGFR.
Measurement of the expression of APRIL mRNA in sputum by RFQ-PCR showed high sensitivity and specificity, which maybe useful in diagnosing NSCLC.
AAV-mediated expression of siRNA could reduce the expression of ANG in cancer cells, significantly enough to inhibit cell proliferation, promote cell apoptosis and inhibit tumor growth.
The estimated prevalences of snoring and OSAHS in adults aged over 20 years in Fuzhou city was high. Strategies based on the epidemiological data in Fuzhou city are needed to cut down the prevalence and harm of OSAHS by controlling modifiable risk factors.
The age and nature of thrombi before the embolization are related to the outcome of emboli and pulmonary arterial intimal alterations. For intimal, there are the changes of hyperplasia, intra-elastic layers thickening and even disappearance in femoral veins and pulmonary arteries after VTE.
The QOL in patients with COPD was impaired and associated with scores of dyspnea, severity of COPD, comorbidities and BMI. Improvement of dyspnea, nutritional support, prevention of comorbidities and keeping away from risk factors may improve the QOL in COPD patients.
COPD has a serious impact on the quality of life of Chinese urban patients and places a heavy economic burden on their family and the society. Management of COPD should be improved for patients at stable conditions, so as to reduce the incidence and exacerbation of COPD.
There was significant variability in healthcare resource utilization between COPD and lung cancer patients in their last hospitalization of life, the main reason of which was the increased costs of maintenance of life.
Pleural tuberculoma is an important sequelae of tuberculous pleurisy. Understanding its clinical, pathological and radiological characteristics is helpful for the differential diagnosis of pleural and lung diseases.
This study demonstrated that patients carrying GST M1-"null" genotype may be susceptible to ADIH.
Community physicians need to be provided more continuing education opportunities in order for them to provide standard asthma treatment for patients.
TBD/SBO are safe and effective procedures for intractable pneumothorax.
The capacity of alveolar fluid clearance was attenuated in oleic acid-induced acute lung injury. The ENaC subunit mRNA levels of ATII cells were significantly decreased in ALI rats.
PPAR-gamma was involved in airway mucus hypersecretion induced by acrolein. PPAR-gamma and its ligand rosiglitazone inhibited acrolein-induced airway mucus hypersecretion, possibly through downregulation of MUC5AC.
ET-1 overexpression induces RPMC hypertrophy and activation of Akt/PKB-mTOR pathway may be involved in the mechanism, with important implications for the pathogenesis of vascular remodeling in pulmonary arterial hypertension.
The overexpressed VEGF in patients with OSCC might be one of the important reasons for blocking the differentiation and maturation of DC.
Low doses of celecoxib could significantly enhance the lethal effect of bleomycin on Tca8113 cells by inhibiting cell growth and proliferation through blocking cell cycle progress and inducing apoptosis. The ways of these interactions on inhibiting Tca8113 cell growth were synergistic or/and additive.
STIR-EPI-DWI is a new promising technique for differentiating normal, inflammatory, and metastatic lymph nodes and can provide more useful information on lymph node metastasis.
Concomitant venae of facial artery can be used as reliable donor vein in microvascular autologous submandibular gland transfer.
The moderate to severe periodontitis was associated with elevated serum CRP levels which may in turn affect the initiation and progression of CHD, and may be a risk factor for CHD.
The occlusal surface of the all-ceramic crown must be trimmed to increase multiple contact zones with the opposite surfaces in antagonist teeth to avoid excessive concentrated stress that may cause crown failure.
The sclerotic dentin surface treated with laser irradiation turns into uniform honeycomb-like structure. The rough surface may be beneficial to bonding strength on sclerotic dentin after laser irradiation.
A hemangioma model was established in mice with injection of recombinant rAAV-hVEGF(121) gene.
The two-step self-etching adhesive showed comparable shear bond strength to some of the total-etching adhesives and higher shear bond strength than one-step self-etching adhesive.
The expression of survivin may play an important role in oral carcinogenesis. Survivin, Bcl-2 and p53 may be synergetic in the carcinogenesis of oral cancer.
Sensory and motor feedback of central nervous system in patients with implant support fixed dentures is close to that of natural dentition. Mastication with traditional full dentures is more likely a process of task learning, memory and adaptation, which might be a more individually dependent restoration.
The transfection of human 4-1-BBL gene in Tca8113 cells is effective in enhancing its immunogenicity and inducing antitumor immune response in vitro.
Over expression of Ezrin in human salivary gland adenoid cystic carcinoma may promote genesis, development and metastasis of tumors. Ezrin Stealth RNAi Duplex could efficiently down-regulate the expression of Ezrin gene, and partly inhibited proliferation of ACC-M cells, induce apoptosis and decrease invasion ability of these cells in vitro.
Attention should be paid to the prevalence of dental erosion among Chinese adolescence.
A database of differently displayed proteins during hPDLC osteogenic differentiation was established, which may be helpful to understand and further study molecular mechanism of PDLC osteogenic differentiation.
More than 90% of IMTM which do not have intimate relationship with the mandibular canals can be screened out by panoramic radiographs. The IMTM which belong to the line touching and superposition type on panoramic radiographs should be examined by CBCT.
After treated with simvastatin, expression of inflammation related genes is down-regulated and inflammation inhibitor genes is up-regulated in mouse osteoblasts.
The SH-3BP-2 mutation may participate in the differentiation and maturation of osteoclast-like cells in the lesion of cherubism.
The results of this study reveal that 3-D analysis of the whole change of the residual ridge is significant and verify that the residual ridge resorption of edentulous maxilla in three dimensions is greater in buccal aspect than in lingual aspect and greater in anterior region than in posterior region.
Magnetron sputtered ZrN can improve bond strength of Ti/Vita titankeramik system significantly.
Incorporation of the T-ZnOw antibacterial agent in composite resin can improve the antibacterial performance of the resin, and the resin exhibits better antibacterial performance than that incorporating silver-based inorganic antibacterial agent after 3 months of aging.
The curvature of root canal may increase the cutting quantity of the -dentin and reduce the ability of remaining original canal shape prepared by ProTaper.
The patients with aggressive periodontitis had more teeth with root abnormality than the patients with chronic periodontitis or healthy subjects. The root abnormality could be a local contributing factor for AgP patients.
AOPP may inhibit the proliferation of HGF and such effect was not achieved through apoptosis. AOPP may increase collagen degradation by promoting MMP-1 synthesis and thus may accelerate periodontal destruction process in diabetes.
GF transfected with hTGF-beta1 gene can significantly improve the periodontal tissue regeneration in treatment of degree II furcation defects and is involved in the formation of the new alveolar bone and the new periodontal membrane.
pGEX-4T-1-AMG-BL21 system is used successfully to express and purify human AMG mature peptide.
Tumor tissue had broad hypoxic region. HIF-1alpha highly expressed in oral squamous cell carcinoma and may play an important role in carcinogenesis and aggression.
CK-18 may provide additional information in forecasting the metastasis of OSCC and serve as a reference in monitoring recurrence.
The skeletal Class III adult patients had distinctly different tongue movements during swallowing.
The three-dimensional finite element model considered the viscoelasticity and viscoelasticity of mandibular. The result suggested that the stress distribution in the mandible gradually became stable after the application of Forsus and the appliance caused downward and forward mandibular modification.
In comparison with CPP-ACP, nano-HA could occlude dentinal tubules more effectively in vitro.
The pain caused by molar extraction is related to the up-regulation of expressions of sodium channels protein Nav1.8 and Nav1.9 mRNA, indicating the participation of sodium channels in regulations of peripheral tissue pain after molar extraction.
It is demonstrated that the four translocations occur with markedly variable frequencies in MALT lymphoma of different sites in Chinese patients. The distributions of these chromosome translocations in Chinese patients are slightly different from those reported in western patients.
The CR rate, 1-year DFS rate and 2-year DFS rate of ABVD chemotherapy scheme executed at day 1 and 8 are similar to those of ABVD chemotherapy scheme executed at day 1 and 15 for primary HL in stages II - IV. The side-effects of chemotherapy between group A and B are similar too. The chemotherapy period in group A is shortened significantly.
BPDC hematodermic neoplasm is a rare subtype of lymphoma with distinct clinicopathologic and immunophenotypic features. The disease often has a fulminant course with a poor prognosis. More recent studies suggest that there is a derivation from a plasmacytoid dendritic cell precursor.
WM may often be seen in old male patients with varied clinical manifestations. The primary treatment is chemotherapy, but the disease is incurable. Bortezomib and thalidomide may improve the therapeutic effect.
More inpatients with accompany DM or IGR had concomitant dyslipidemia than those with NGT, which included hypertriglyceridemia, hypo-high-density lipoproteinemia and metabolic syndrome. Concomitant vascular diseases were more frequently found in PDM inpatients than in the others. Some of the NDM and IGT inpatients were complicated with microvascular diseases.
The common disease causing IHVF is CAD. The worse the heart function, the higher the rate of IHVF and the worse the prognosis. It IHVF not induced by hypokalemia and use of adrenaline in resuscitation predict lower successful defibrillation rate.
The expressions of AP-1 and MMPs increase in human myocardial infarction. These findings suggest that AP-1 transcription activation pathway and MMPs may play an important role in ventricular remodeling of myocardial infarction.
The intercellular space diameter of squamous epithelium in lower esophagus of GERD patients can make quantitative study with LM. It is significant correlation with TEM. DIS with LM is one of sensitive, specific and objective marker of GERD.
TIA patients with ABCD2 &gt; or = 4 are at higher risk of AT within 7 days after TIA onset.
PCT could be used in treatment of CAP for antibiotic use in outpatient, which may reduce antibiotic use, shorten antibiotic duration and lower costs of antibiotic.
Daptomycin has excellent in vitro activity against common gram-positive pathogens isolated from blood. It may be a good choice for clinicians to treat drug-resistant gram-positive cocci.
These results show that GM test is useful for early diagnosis IPA in critically ill patients. Differences in patient selection and diagnosis might account for the disparities seen for positive rate and sensitivity for the GM test. It has been higher sensitivity and ODI in the patient treated by immunosuppressive agents.
The main pathological change in the MELAS brain biopsy immunohistochemical staining with AMA was the small vessel proliferation, indicating that abnormal mitochondria accumulated in the vascular smooth muscle, endothelial cell and neurons of the lesion sites. This finding was consistent with the electron microscopic discovery and valuable for the diagnosis of MELAS.
DJ-1 protein may be a potential marker related to Alzheimer disease pathogenicity. This finding would be helpful to develop new drugs which focus on this protein and prevent neurodegeneration.
At least more than half of the patients after ischemic stroke/TIA need intensive statin therapy to target the LDL-C lowering goal. The dosage-effective relation of atorvastatin and LDL-C lowering in Chinese is similar to the reported data in other races.
It is found that in Kennedy' disease, as well as in other CAG repeat diseases, the length of polyglutamine tract determines the age of onset, but has no correlation with the severity of the disease.
Aortic valve calcification, mitral annular calcification, history of diabetes mellitus, high value of UT were independently correlated with severe coronary artery calcification. Measurement of PWV and UCG should be performed before multi-slicerow computed tomography, because the assessment of coronary artery lumen narrowing with multi-slice row computed tomography can not be carried out accurately in the presence of severe coronary artery calcification.
There are definitely some different features between the two diseases. It is essential to review the whole clinical data of the patient. The frequency of granulomas and the distribution of chronic inflammation are identified as histological parameters that can be used to differentiate tuberculosis and Crohn's disease.
Thalidomide can suppress the expression of HIF-1alpha and VEGF in HUVEC in vitro and then inhibit angiodysplasia, which may play a significant role in stopping the rebleeding in patients with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding.
(1) Combined therapy with inhaled corticosteroid plus long-acting beta(2) agonist significantly improves the clinical symptoms and lung function of patients with moderate and severe asthma companies with marked suppression of airway inflammation. (2) Both of EBC and induced sputum sampling are valuable noninvasive procedures for detecting asthma airway inflammation, however, EBC technique is superior in safety and reproducibility. (3) H(2)O(2) and NO(3)(-)/NO(2)(-) seem to be more sensitive indices in diagnosis and monitoring asthma compared to LTE(4).
Nateglinide (120 mg, 3/d) is effective and well tolerated in T2DM patients uncontrolled by diet, demonstrating similar HbA1c reductions as compared with acarbose (100 mg, 3/d).
Exposure to long-term iodine excess imposes danger of developing hypothyroidism. The risk will be even higher when exposing to iodine adequacy after correction of iodine deficiency. An interval between 1.0 and 1.9 mU/L of TSH level was optimal with the least probability of developing abnormal TSH level.
NK cell activity, sCD(25) and glycosylated ferritin may be helpful markers for the early diagnosis of HLH.
AML patients with percentage of residual bone marrow blasts &lt; 5% after induction chemotherapy (T1 or T2) have better CR rate, RFS, OS than the patients with percentage &gt; or = 5% at the same time point. Combination of cytogenetics and percentage of residual bone marrow blasts at T1 or T2 is helpful to divide patients with intermediate karyotypes into two subgroups with different prognosis. Thus, a better decision of treatment strategy can be designed.
Telomerase reverse transcription and angiogenic correlation factors were up-regulated in a mouse model of oxygen-induced retinopathy, which may have therapeutic potential in the treatment with the neovascularization in retinopathy.
There is a correlation between the expression of VEGF of vitreous and the severity of PDR. The expression of VEGF of vitreous presents a relatively lower level in patients with stabilization and regression of PDR.
The apoptosis of RPE cells induced by curcumin is caused by increase of Ca(2+) and decrease of DeltaPsim that causes decrease of DNA content. The RPE cells are significantly inhibited by curcumin, which may become a potential drug to prevent and treat proliferative vitreoretinopathy.
Intravitreal injection of silicon oil was able to help the removement of hardly-hold intraocular foreign body with PPV and avoid secondary retinal injury in this process.
3D-FIESTA Sequence combined with MPR (Multiplanar Reformation) could precisely show the ocular motor nerves, as well as the relationships with adjacent structures in the cistern. The inferior division of CN3 and the CN6 could be well depicted in the orbits. But of the small sizes and complicated neighboring structures in the orbit, the superior division of the CN3 and the CN4 could not be demonstrated consistently. The capabilities of MRI can be fully used only with thorough knowledge of the complicated topographic relationships in the corresponding region.
Various toxic agents injected into anterior chamber by misuse can result in TASS. All these misuse can be avoided. Early diagnosis and proper management may be important to improve the prognosis of TASS.
The choroidal metastasis has specific clinical features. The classification of metastatic lesions into solitary, diffuse and early types is helpful for the evaluation of the disease process. The primary tumor can be found in 80% of cases. The most common primary cancer is breast carcinoma, followed by lung carcinoma. These two cancers account for 75% of primary tumors. In solitary type and early type lesions, TTT combines with systemic treatment could result in regression of lesions, saving of vision and improvement of the life quality.
The present study has identified a novel nonsense mutation in CRYGC associated with congenital nuclear cataracts in a Chinese family.
The use of aspheric acrylic AcrySof IQ IOL may improve the quality of vision as a result of the reduction of contrast sensitivity and spherical aberration.
CSC is possibly a bilateral disease associated with systemic pathologic conditions. Hypoperfusion and ischemia are the basal characteristics of retrobulbar blood vessels' circulation disorder and choroidal ultracirculation disorder. The damage of RPE is following to the choroidal circulation disorder.
The pathway of conjugation of HNE with GSH is inhibited in diabetic lens which may play a role in the formation of diabetic cataract. The oxidation of HNE by ALDH is a compensation process for protecting the lens against diabetic damage.
shRNA-p27Kip1 can down-regulate the expression of bCEC effectively and increase the growth of bCEC. shRNA-p27Kip1 RNA interference may be an effective method to promote the proliferation of CEC.
The increased expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2 in lamina cribrosa in rat OHT eye indicates that MMPs and TIMPs may be involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma.
Melanocytoma of the optic disc is a benign tumor that rarely causes visual impairment. However, visual acuity may be impaired due to enlargement of the tumor or necrosis in tumor. It is important to follow-up every case with melanocytoma of the optic disc as long as possible.
The choroid is the most common site for metastases. CM may precede the diagnosis of primary tumor. Evaluation of A, B scan ultrasound, CT of thorax and cancer antigen test may be important to exclude primary carcinoma from lung and breast in patients with yellow-white in color, plateau-shaped choroidal lesions, especially in both eyes, and without known metastatic diseases.
Orbital adenoid cystic carcinoma is one of the most malignant tumors in the orbit. They have a high local recurrence rate and survival rate. Tumor histological types and the treatment procedure can influence the prognosis. Combined therapy may decrease the recurrence and increase the survival rate.
The intrinsic multidrug resistance of Rb involves the combined effects of P-gp, LRP and MRP.
VM exists in Rb. Highly differentiated Rb exhibits more VM than that in less differentiated Rb. Expression of HIF-1alpha and VEGF is greater in Rb with VM, indicating that these factors may stimulate the occurrence of VM.
The stereopsis in children from 30 to 50 months of age is still in developing status. We suggest using 100'' for Titmus, 200'' for RPS and 240'' for TNO as normal stereopsis criteria in 3 to 4 year old children. RPS provides a reliable procedure for the measurement of stereopsis acuity in preschool children.
In the present study, the Tetraflex AIOL showed greater accommodative amplitude and better near visual acuity than those of the control group with conventional IOL. But 6 months later, all of these measurements in the test group were decreased.
All devices produced similar results of reproducibility, but showed varying results in the ocular total wavefront reading.
Trabeculectomy is an effective method to control IOP in APACG and CPACG. However, the high proportion of impaired vision was found following trabeculectomy in this study and warranted further clinical investigation.
In vivo laser scanning confocal microscopy is a useful tool in the analysis of the bulbar conjunctival morphology, which provided a fast and noninvasive method for the diagnosis of ocular surface diseases.
J2 can inhibit corneal rejection in allograft mice model and its effect is similar to that of CsA.
The expression of CD11b in retinal microglia is fluctuated with chronic OHT pattern and RGCs injury level indicating that the injury antigens by microglia are presented in the retina with the increase of IOP and activate the immunologic process leading to glaucomatous RGCs damage. It suggests that it is important to effectively control the IOP in order to reduce the risk of immune induced retinal damage by microglia.
There are big difference between the 13 kinds of ophthalmological periodicals. The qualities of some ophthalmological periodicals should be improved.
Vitrectomy was evaluated as an useful treatment for IMH. ILM peeling in vitrectomy could not improve the closure rate and the visual outcomes. Preoperative hole size may be a sensitive predictor for postoperative closure.
Scleral buckling combined with intravitreal gas injection is an effective procedure for the treatment of retinal detachment in vitrectomized eyes without silicon oil tamponade. The rate of secondary vitrectomy also can be reduced.
CHRRPE may be confused with other masses of the retina and choroid. Diagnosis of CHRRPE mainly depends on fundus manifestations, FFA and OCT. B ultrasound scan is useful for differential diagnosis.
(1) When the medial wall of the optic canal is opened inside the sphenoid sinus, the depth shouldn't exceed 13 mm, otherwise it may damage the internal carotid artery and cause severe bleeding even death. (2) The depth should be less than 15 mm and the superior-inferior diameter should be less than 12 mm inside the anterior ethmoid sinus, otherwise the opposite ethmoid sinus or frontal base may be opened accidently. (3) The ophthalmic artery should be specifically protected in order not to cause ocular ischemia and blindness.
Intravitreal injection of 0.5 U plasmin + 5 U hyaluronidase can induce complete PVD without obvious toxicity in diabetic rats. Solo usage of plasmin or hyaluronidase can not induce complete PVD.
Corneal topography guiding incision phacoemulsification surgery and the implantation of negative spherical aberration IOL is a more favorable solution for cataract patients coexisting corneal astigmatism, which can correct the corneal astigmatism, decrease the spherical aberration, high-order aberration and general aberration of pseudophakic eyes and therefore improve the visual quality of patients.
Compared with deep lamellar endothelial keratoplasty (DLEK), DSEK procedure is technically easier and less traumatic to recipient cornea and anterior chamber structures. The skill of roughening the peripheral recipient posterior stroma should prevent postoperative graft dislocation effectively.
The embolization with Glubran 2 after direct surgical exposure is the safe and effective treatment for orbital varix and can correct some enophthalmos.
A clinical condition with swelling of either or both lacrimal gland and of any salivary gland, and accompanied with systemic relative diseases should be considered benign lymphoepithelial lesion. Imaging examinations are helpful to definite diagnosis. Most patients are sensitive to the glucocorticoid treatment. The dose of glucocorticoid should be large at the beginning of treatment. Surgical excision can be applied to the cases insensitive to medications or difficult to be diagnosed. The definite diagnosis should be made through pathological examinations.
Topical application of mK5 eye drops can prevent corneal graft rejection and corneal neovascularization in rats.
The in vitro susceptibility of fusidic acid to staphylococci is higher, while to streptococcus and gram-positive bacilli is obviously lower than other three kinds of antibiotics.
Tenofovir DF induces an organ-specific nephrotoxicity with mtDNA depletion and dysfunction of mtDNA-encoded respiratory chain subunits. The data do not support nephrotoxicity of didanosine.
Population testing and ART initiation rates rose dramatically during 2001-2006. Yet, yield remained high, and HIV-infected persons continued to receive late diagnoses. These findings highlight the continuing need for expanded testing and linkage to care.
The HIV-1 epidemic in Maputo is evolving rapidly in genetic complexity due to the recent introduction of all major subtypes and recombinant forms. Continued surveillance of drug resistance in treated and untreated populations is needed to prevent further transmission of HIV drug-resistant variants and maximize the efficacy of antiretroviral therapy in Maputo.
Although there is a tendency for partners of a similar age to be chosen and the average age of HIV-infected people in Australia is relatively old, suggesting that the epidemic may eventually age out depending on death rates, there seems to be sufficient cross-age mixing and high sexual mixing in younger age groups to sustain the HIV epidemic over the medium to long term.
The results demonstrate that the ablation volume for demineralized dentin was greater than that for sound dentin. The results suggest that the Er:YAG laser is capable of ablating infected dentin without damaging sound dentin by adjustment of tip output and pulse rate.
Repeated treatments of glabellar lines with 10 or 20 U of BoNTA provided long-term safety and efficacy in Japanese subjects. The 20-U dose provided longer duration, greater subject satisfaction, and greater subject-rated improvement. The 20-U dose was identified as optimal for improving glabellar lines in Japanese subjects. These results apply only to the formulation of BoNTA used in this study.
The most notable attributes of the patient journey approach are: giving patients a 'voice'; enhancing collaborative multidisciplinary teamwork; shared ownership and decision-making; providing evidence to substantiate change; and achieving results.
The City Hospitals Sunderland patient journey approach is an effective, patient-centred, collaborative service improvement model.
An ideal pancreaticojejunostomy anastomosis after pancreaticoduodenectomy should be safe, simple and secure. This modified invagination method seems to be promising when these parameters are taken in to account.
Esomeprazole is superior to Ranitidine in improving the quality of Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreaticography images especially the contrast effect of duodenum and stomach and image effect of pancreatic duct.
The number of metastatic lymph nodes, common hepatic node metastasis, and positive radial margin are independent prognostic factors for middle and distal bile duct cancer. The surgical treatment of middle and bile duct cancer should achieve a negative radial margin for a favorable outcome.
USBA is a simple and sensitive noninvasive test for cholestasis and also useful to predict postoperative uncontrolled ascites after hepatic resections.
Patients aged 80 years and over, undergoing cholecystectomy, specially after endoscopic sphinterotomy., have a greater risk of p.o. morbidity and mortality than younger. Laparoscopic and open cholecystectomy seems to bear the same poor p.o. prognosis.
The significant antitumor activity of GFP chemotherapy has been seen in patients with advanced biliary carcinoma. However, further evaluation in large numbers of patients is needed to determine the difference in chemosensitivity according to the tumor site.
Our results suggest that ulcer may be a factor of poor prognosis, and we recommend endoscopic examination for all patients with CDAD for identification of poor prognostic groups.
TPA and TPS are important predictive markers for PS and DFI after liver resections and radiofrequency ablations for CLM.
Enteral nutrition improved the health-related quality of life of Crohn's disease patients with long-term disease duration. Thus, enteral nutrition should be recommended as one of the options for maintenance therapy for Crohn's disease.
IFN-beta-1a therapy is effective for patients with chronic hepatitis C on liver histology regardless of viral response. The alpha-SMA-positive HSCs and collagen type III expression are responsible for liver fibrosis.
Alpha-tocopherol and p-nitrophenol are released from the O-glycosides of glucose and mannose in significantly higher amount in colon cancer than in healthy tissues. The alpha-tocopherol O-glycosides can be considered as prodrugs in prevention and treatment of the colon cancer.
These findings suggest that ROS are independent of TP-triggered signaling transduction and are associated with increased tumor invasion, but not liver metastasis in patients with colorectal cancer. From this point of view, new strategies related to ROS may provide improved therapeutic results as well as a preventative effect on carcinogenesis of the colorectum.
This is the first report concerning G-CSF during CAP. G-CSF is increased due to GCAP and appears to be a candidate which should be further investigated.
In high anterior resection, SFEEA is easy, safe and useful as compared with DST.
Our findings suggest targeting hexokinase II has a potential role in the combination 5-fluorouracil treatments of colon cancer.
The CEA is a metastasis potentiator. The high serum CEA in CRC screening programs should be considered a marker of malignancy especially in patients with appropriate symptoms. The preop CEA in CRC patients identifies subsets with favorable, indolent and uneven biological behavior (&lt; or =5 ng%, &lt; or =15 ng%, &gt; 15 ng% respectively). Moreover, the addition of preop CEA level to conventional staging forms a strong prognostic tool and supplies adopted practice guideline initiative for follow up and therapy in CRC.
Higher pN status and tumor vascularisation has been linked to poor prognosis in overall survival and recurrence of liver metastases.
We postulated that the incidence of intermediate and thick vessels (&gt;10 microm) is related to angiogenesis occurring during carcinogenesis of colorectal mucosa. Furthermore, the appearance of visualized MC vessels during magnifying NBI colonoscopy can be used to identify angiogenesis in colorectal LGD and hyperplastic polyps.
We conclude that the HDS technique reduces the duration of operation and the rate of anastomotic stricture formation.
The ZAP classification could be applied to diagnosis of GERD, especially NERD. Biopsy taken at distal esophagus can be a limited but useful diagnostic tool, particularly in patients with NERD.
Prolonged treatment with terlipressin did not prove significant decrease of mortality or bleeding recurrence; lower rebleeding rate after day 5 and tendency towards lower transfusion requirements were observed. Prolonged treatment had no influence on AE rate.
Needle puncture measurement of VP is a feasible and safe method for use with EVL.
Antireflux surgery improves atypical symptoms of GERD, but symptom resolution occurs in less than half of cases.
Portal venous stent placement is a useful therapeutic option for the treatment of anastomotic stenosis of portal vein following major abdominal surgery combined with portal reconstruction.
Our data suggest that COMT gene 158Met polymorphism is associate with a reduced risk of developing more severe intestinal metaplasia in H. pylori infected older subjects.
Laparoscopic surgery for primary Crohn's disease is safe and feasible in selected patients without severe adhesion, fistula or abscess, and was associated with better cosmesis than conventional open surgery. Therefore, laparoscopic procedures should be considered as the preferred operative approach for a primary bowel resection.
Our data describe TPMT and ITPA gene mutation patterns among Koreans and provide a basis for screening studies to identify patients at high risk for myelotoxicity from thiopurine drugs.
Our data suggest that patients with HCV persistence in platelets by the end-of-treatment appear to be at an increased risk of recurrent HCV infection.
A superfine dispersed lentinan-containing supplementary food is effective for hepatocellular carcinoma patients' survival. Long-time ingestion is preferable. Assessment of lentinan-binding CD14+ monocytes is a promising prognostic predictor.
Hemihepatic vascular occlusion with hanging maneuver, which can reduce bleeding volume and enhance the recovery of liver function, is safe and practicable, especially for patients with liver cirrhosis.
LAPH can be safely performed even in patients with chronic liver injury and recovery of patients from operation was faster than that by conventional hepatectomy.
These findings indicate that elevated hsCRP levels may discriminate patients with and without spontaneous bacterial peritonitis even in the presence of nonneutrocytic ascites, and may have utility in the assessment of treatment response.
Combination therapy with MARS and liver transplantation seems to be the more effective therapeutic option for patients with severe ALF.
All liver tests return to normal within one year after eradication of the Hepatitis C virus. Parameters measuring the liver plasma flow (SCI and ICG) require more time to become normal, most likely due to tissue remodelling processes.
There is still no certain way of predicting the outcome of acute hepatitis B whether a newly infected patient will resolve the illness or not. Alcohol addiction seems to have an impact on the chronicity but additional research is needed.
EPO treatment significantly ameliorated liver I-R injury in this pig model. The protective effect was exerted by the inhibition of apoptosis. These results will open the door for the clinical application of EPO in liver surgery.
RT is effective for the local control of LN metastases from HCC without a confirmed survival effect. RT doses greater than 58 Gy10 are required for a better local response.
Phosphatidylcholine intake may well inhibit carcinogenesis in patients at high risk for hepatocellular carcinoma by apoptosis induction.
Two types of PEG-IFN products affected the blood cell profile in different manners. Long-term monitoring of laboratory test values is necessary with PEG-IFN alpha-2a.
SPD was safe and effective in control of bleeding varices in portal hypertension.
Either tumor size or MPD dilation detected by CT could predict the majority of malignant branch-type IPMNs. Increases in these morphological characteristics on CT images during the follow-up period would be an accurate method to predict a diagnosis of malignancy.
The current study suggested that the reconstruction of duct-to-mucosa anastomosis for pancreatico-jejunostomy by using the ultrasonically activated scalpel and the use of early postoperative enteral nutrition should be attempted as a means to reduce the incidence of pancreatic fistula after PD.
Arterial infusion via superior mesenteric artery might prevent both bacterial translocation and non-occlusive mesenteric ischemia. Continuous arterial infusion both celiac artery and superior mesenteric artery might be effective for reducing mortality and preventing the development of pancreatitis, especially when initiated within 3 days after the onset. Further prospective randomized studies using a larger number of patients are required.
MD-CT imaging has a significant impact on preventing unnecessary exploratory surgery and on the selection of appropriate pancreatic cancer patients for surgical resection.
Intraoperative pancreatography using ENPD tube is a simple technique and useful for the prevention of pancreatic fistula after local pancreatic resection.
Our present data suggest the possibility that the cancer retaining G type is detected endoscopically earlier than that obtaining the intestinal phenotypic expression by the phenotypic shift, which may partially explain the MGC occurrence.
LNT combination from the beginning of the chemotherapy may be an important factor for the improvement of patient QOL.
In Helicobacter pylori-negative healthy male subjects, an intravenous dose of famotidine 20 mg more rapidly increases intragastric pH than lansoprazole 30 mg.
The combination regimen demonstrated comparable efficacy and acceptable safety profiles in patients with metastatic gastric cancer. Chloroxoquinoline maintenance monotherapy has a tendency to increase progression-free survival.
SPT was considered useful to detect not only GU or AGC but also EGC with a high sensitivity. A significant decrease of sucrose excretion was observed after treatment in EGC.
(1) SPECT images demonstrated hypoperfusion rCBF changes in 14 out of all 16 patients. (2) Regional cerebral/cerebellar hypoperfusion was detected by SPECT in mitochondrial encephalomyopathies, with lactate acidosis and aminoacidopathies giving high informative value about the cerebral perfusion.
Unlike previous reports from Taiwan, in the present study, GBS was found to be the leading pathogen in early-onset sepsis. GBS screening and intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis guidelines should be used in Taiwan to prevent early neonatal sepsis. The most common causative microorganisms of late-onset sepsis were CONS and Candida species. Candida parapsilosis was associated with a high mortality rate.
Scrub typhus should be considered in children with fever and hepatic dysfunction, particularly in those with a history of environmental exposure in an endemic area for scrub typhus. The presence of an eschar offers an important diagnostic clue, but not for all cases. Children with scrub typhus may develop serious complications and may even die if appropriate treatment is not given. Doxycycline is an effective antibiotic for pediatric scrub typhus in Taiwan.
Increased chromosomal breakage and the presence of basal ganglia calcification after early childhood suggest that DNA repair defects are involved in the pathogenesis of this disorder. This rare disorder represents a complex of symptoms with unknown cause and pathogenesis, and more than one disease may account for the clinical variability of NPS.
Both criteria of PRBC transfusion had similar clinical outcomes, although liberal transfusion resulted in a greater amount of blood transfused and a low reticulocyte count at 30 days of age. We suggest restrictive criteria for minimizing the overall amount of transfusion to less than 30 mL may be a better way of preventing CLD in VLBW infants.
The pyloric ratio appears to be a reliable parameter in evaluating the regression of pyloric stenosis after pyloromyotomy, and also aids in the diagnosis of pyloric stenosis.
Efficacy of the isolation method was confirmed by achieving normoglycemia after autotransplantation of pancreatic islets into the liver, while histological examination showed hepatic vascularization to be the most appropriate location for an autogenic graft. PTX presence in the preserving solution for the pancreas storage produced the cytoprotective effect, which directly correlated with the islet yield.
The study demonstrated that dialysis fluid with icodextrin ensured effective ultrafiltration during a 16-hour dialysis exchange. This indicates its potential usefulness in the treatment of patients with severe congestive heart failure with or without coexisting end-stage renal disease.
It is feasible to treat experimental diabetes by transplantation of encapsulated Langerhans islets without immunosuppression.
Italy's performance in cancer research over the eight years to 2008 was better than expected considering its GDP and population. Nevertheless, the slight decline evidenced by the present study should induce scientists and policy makers to find ways to reverse the situation.
Incidence and prevalence of renal cell cancer are likely to remain approximately stable between 2002 and 2007. Increased diagnostic attention due to widespread use of echography and other diagnostic techniques may, however, lead to earlier detection of kidney neoplasms and consequently to an apparent increase in the incidence of renal cell cancer.
This is one of the first studies to estimate the direct cost of treating patients newly diagnosed with invasive cervical cancer in Italy. Although according to current management pathways real treatment costs are likely to be underestimated, this information is necessary to design evidence-based vaccination policies able to harmonize primary and secondary prevention of cervical cancer.
To measure the discrimination of the nomogram, a receiver-operating characteristic curve was construed, and the area under the curve was calculated. However, the area under the curve was 0.72, a very high value considering that the limit of acceptability is 0.70-0.80. The calculation system developed by the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center provides a predictive value on the histopathologic state of sentinel lymph nodes.
Obtaining specimens through surgery is an effective diagnostic tool. Surgical resection in combination with postoperative chemotherapy plays a therapeutic role.
Conformal radiotherapy to the dose of 74 Gy was administered with good compliance. The incidence of acute and late toxicity was relatively low in accord with our dose constraints. Rectal V70 proved to be a reliable prognosticator of late toxicity. Overall survival and biochemical relapse-free survival rates were more favorable for low and intermediate-risk and significantly less favorable for high-risk patients.
The CNAO will be the only carbon ion facility in Italy and will have an international basin. Close cooperation with existing oncological centers is of paramount importance to fully exploit its potential.
In non-small cell lung cancer, radiotherapy induces a progressive decrease in glucose metabolism that is greater 3 months after the end of treatment but can be detected during the treatment itself. Glucose avid, radiotherapy-induced inflammation is more evident after the end of radiotherapy than during radiotherapy and does not preclude the interpretation of [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose images, particularly when using PET/CT.
Patients with cervical lymph node metastases of squamous cell carcinoma from an unknown primary site have clinical features and a prognosis similar to those of other head and neck malignancies. Extensive irradiation results in a lower trend of emergence of the primary tumor than when patients are treated with ipsilateral and bilateral irradiation, but there is no significant difference in overall survival.
The study confirmed the effectiveness of radiotherapy plus temozolomide in newly diagnosed glioblastoma. It was established that the application of adjuvant temozolomide for at least 4 cycles is required to obtain a benefit from adjuvant therapy. However, further studies are needed to confirm these data.
The results of our study showed a dose-dependent increase in the late toxicity trend at doses over and above 60 Gy, which is higher than the cutoff dose reported in the literature. There was no indication from our data that adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy means additional toxicity. The use of highly conformal techniques can further reduce toxicity of the radiotherapy.
We believe it is necessary to conduct randomized studies on this issue because insight into predictors of recurrence after pathological complete response to postoperative chemotherapy could be used to select patients for trials of consolidation therapy.
Significant, similar psychosexual and body image problems occur in patients treated for breast cancer with either mastectomy or BCT. Problems arise early in the course of the disease and therefore detection and treatment of these problems should be addressed during the patients' initial assessment and at the start of treatment. These findings are similar to those reported on similar groups of treated women in American and European populations.
At the current official price in Italy, primary prophylaxis with pegfilgrastim improved health outcomes with a very limited cost increase for the National Health Service payer. Even when very low prices of filgrastim and high prices of pegfilgrastim were considered in the model, the resulting incremental cost-effectiveness ratio remained well within the acceptable cost-effectiveness limit of Euro 50,000/quality-adjusted life year.
These results are suggestive of increased aggressiveness of tumors not susceptible to chemoprevention by the agents used in this study.
The existing parameters should be viewed as guidelines of conduct. The final trial on which the clinical procedure or treatment plan is most suitable for a particular patient should be done by a physician, who should discuss the available treatment options with the patient according to the diagnosis.
Hypothesis about the potential effect of the statins preventing or inhibiting the development of high risk CaP needs to be proven applying specific clinical trials designed for this purpose. There isn't conclusive data that demonstrate that statins lower the risk of development of potentially lethal high grade CaP.
In accordance with other studies, we believe that with some strategy TURP should not be considered a relative contra-indication for brachytherapy.
These EAU guidelines present the updated information about the diagnosis and treatment of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer and offer the recent findings for the routine clinical application.
Despite its morbidity and mortality, radical nephrectomy with thrombectomy should be performed in case of renal cell carcinoma with tumoral thrombus, because it can offers the possibility of local control. Patients with lymph node and distant metastatic disease have poor prognoses.
Our experience shows that early penile rehabilitation seems to be a good treatment for erectile dysfunction after radical prostatectomy with IPDE5 in fixed doses. Administration every other day plus on demand looks like also as an appropriate option.
CDT needs to be taken into account in the differential diagnosis of childhood testicular tumors.
The studies do not sustain the usefulness of the DHEA for the reduction of the symptoms associated with the aging.
This procedure is an attractive minimally invasive alternative for the anatomical and functional reconstruction of the posterior and apical defects.
Women with mixed UI showed and important impact on HRQoL. This impact is strongly associated with presence of symptoms of Urge UI.
Both different surgical techniques compared showed a similar complication and morbidity rates in middle follow up. Each procedure should be selected according to clinical condition of the patient, the extension of the urethral damage, the associated traumatic lesions and the surgeon's expertise. In our searched patients, treated with a primary urethral repair we found a significantly less development of infection, obstruction and stenosis.
We think that the balloon dilatation of pyeloureteral junction obstruction is a minimally aggressive technique that is possible to realize in infants with good results and scanty complications.
Most patients with recurrent lithiasic pathology or at high-risk display one or more metabolic disorders, being hypercalciuria and hypocitraturia the most frecuently encountered. In this study, there was no difference between sexes in most of the metabolic disorders, nor in its age distribution. These results demonstrate the need for metabolic studies in high-risk patients, since there are tools that allow therapeutic medical management of metabolic disorders and thus reduce the recurrence of lithiasis.
Recent consensus on genitourinary trauma emphasizes the need to pay attention to the presence of bone fragments of the pelvic ring fractures in cases of closed bladder rupture. In cases of extraperitoneal bladder rupture with bone fragments in the vecinity, bladder endoscopic examination and surgical treatment may be needed.
Although the relapse of hematological tumors to the prostate has been described previously, there is no published case to our knowledge of a leukemic prostate infiltration in an assymptomatic patient as an incidental finding by an imaging procedure.
Therefore, these AGE etiologic agents constitute a problem of public health in Burkina Faso. Their control for the child would require: (1) a regular paediatric and clinical follow up; (2) health education of the population for food hygiene and (3) in case of absence of HIV infection in the mother, a promotion of exclusive breast-feeding up to the age of 4 months.
Remifentanil provides greater hemodynamic control than fentanyl at the doses utilized. No adverse effects attributable to these opioids were observed in either group.
Stimulation systems are not currently designed to adapt to changes in distance between the electrodes and nerve fibers. Improvements are required in this respect.
Nearly half of HSTs in this study did not receive any training in the use of diathermy, resulting in failure to adhere to what is considered best practice. This may lead to adverse events for the patient along with medico-legal consequences. This problem could be overcome by ensuring HSTs receive adequate formal diathermy training and we suggest that a dedicated diathermy course is incorporated in basic surgical training curricula.
Fournier's gangrene is not an uncommon disease in South Asia. Systemic predisposition such as diabetes mellitus, long-standing steroid therapy, chronic alcoholism and even the hot humid season can contribute to this dreadful disease. Local causes in the form of urogenital, anorectal and cutaneous disorders may trigger this disease in some patients. Early recognition of disease and aggressive surgical debridement are the main treatments.
In a significant number of cases of possible renal tract duplication, additional relevant information can be obtained from an IVU. Patient distress is minimised by combining the IVU and DMSA in one single episode of venous access. Review of the radiological images during the investigation allows minimisation of radiation dosage.
In this group of patients outcome has not been affected by radiation therapy, hormone manipulation or chemotherapy. It has therefore enabled us to assess recurrence rates free of any potentially confounding treatment related influences. The results from this study suggest, that in our hands, the recurrence rates for DCIS following wide local excision alone are similar to those reported in series in which radiotherapy was used as adjuvant treatment.
1. In children who are treated by repeated hemodialysis approach to disturbances in the cardiac intraventricular conduction system. 2. Those disturbances are improved by a singular hemodialysis. 3. BSPM method detects earlier changes in the cardiac intraventricular conduction system than the classical ECG.
Disturbed circadian blood pressure profile is a common phenomenon in children with IgAN and SHN also in normotensive patients and in patients on antihypertensive treatment. Elevated uric acid serum level may be a marker of elevated pulse pressure in children with IgAN and SHN.
Disturbed concentrations of OPN, PDGF-BB and BMP-7 in dialysis patients may indicate that the preventive mechanisms against the calcification disorders have been set. The fact that the changes in the concentrations of the above mentioned factors are less pronounced in the PD group, lets us assume that PD is the type of dialysis that interferes to the lesser extent with the balance between the promoters and inhibitors of calcification.
The increased concentrations of all parameters may indicate the proteolytic overactivity in the examined population. A single polysulfone HD session tends to deepen the MMPs/TIMPs dysfunction, although this impact seems transient.
The study showed aminothiol imbalance in children in first weeks of relapse of nephrotic syndrome.
Increased serum level of resistin and adiponectin was observed in children with relapse of INS or in early phase of remission. These finding suggests that they may play a role in the pathogenesis of INS in children. It requires further investigation based on a broad study.
Chronic glomerulopathies were the most frequent cause of ESRD in investigated group. Time between diagnosis of chronic renal disease and initiation of renal replacement therapy was significantly shorter in children with glomerulopathies than with congenital abnormalities of urinary tract.
Nursing independence in conduct of patients therapy in peritoneal dialysis isn't high. Systematic training and longest professional practice in dialysis station should help farthest development of nursing independence.
The study revealed that dialysis nurses' work, practical skills and attitude were assessed very well by patients. Their level of satisfaction would be higher if nurses spent more time and initiated more discussion with the patients. The high merit that nurses received should be considered as a stimulus that ought to increase the professional independence and quality of dialysis nurses performance.
Nephrotic proteinuria disturbs production of LN and increases its urinary excretion, but did not influence on urinary excretion of FN.
Sevelamer treatment may be usefulness in children with resistant hyperphosphatemia.
1. Only half of the children with congenital hydronephrosis are to nephro-urology care following prenatal diagnosis. 2. A large number of perinatal complications are observed in newborns with prenatally diagnosed hydronephrosis. 3. The management of newborn hydronephrosis requires better cooperation between obstetricians, neonatologists, pediatric nephrologists and urologists.
In patients treated with CsA appearance of headaches may suggest medication neurotoxicity.
It seems, the cinacalcet may be an alternate treatment to paraidectomy in children with chronic kidney disease and heavy secondary hyperparathyreoidism.
The role of public health is to point to the prevention of injuries because of their growing tendency in the population.
In spite of the small sample size and unfavorable patient distribution according to age, work status, disease duration and education, results of this and other studies on LOC, forcing LOC orientation regarding self-treatment and self-control of DMT2 patients could be of high importance, with the assumption of good internal responsibility and belief in help of other important people.
Understanding LOC of DMT2 patients is essential for developing more efficient educative and intervention medical programs for care of these patients, since it could help in making the right access to care for every single patient or group of patients that have the same LOC.
GP should maintain the gatekeeping role to assure good quality of care and rationality in using available resources. Cooperation between GPs and specialists is essential to achieve good quality of care. GPs should restore role in indicating follow-up check ups.
Although VCE enabled us to visualize the small bowel mucosa and therefore helped us establish the diagnosis in cases where other diagnostic methods had failed, it still has some important limitations, the major one being the impossibility to take biopsies and to perform any therapeutic procedures. However, it has a high diagnostic yield in cases of OGIB and Crohn's disease, is very comfortable for patients, and has a low incidence of complications (capsule retention). When making definitive diagnosis, one should always consider patient's history and physical examination findings as well as other possible causes of small bowel mucosal impairment.
VCE is a promising new technique that has a high diagnostic yield in patients with OGIB and Crohn's disease. However, more studies need to be done to establish definitive indications, cost-effectiveness and the best way of patient preparation for VCE.
The decreasing tendency recorded in hospitalization for cardiovascular diseases points to the improved quality of secondary prevention, including statins. The high rate of hospitalization for hypertension reflects inadequate primary prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
Using an angled gantry approach, the coronary arteries can be fully imaged in a plane along the long axis of the left heart with a single 10-cm acquisition and with substantial reduction in amount of breast tissue within the irradiated field.
This paper describes the design, construction, and performance of a new DEI system using a commercially available tungsten anode x-ray tube and includes the first high-quality low-dose diffraction-enhanced images of full-thickness human tissue specimens.
Errors in CT and MR studies regarding the diagnosis and characterization of adnexal masses in a highly enriched population of women undergoing adnexal surgery are common. Knowledge of the types of QA issues found in CT and MR studies of adnexal masses should aid in decreasing future errors.
Fat containing HCC has spectrum of imaging findings on CT and MRI. MRI with chemical shift technique depicts the fat content. Arterial contrast enhancement with venous washout or fading may help for the diagnosis of HCC in inconclusive cases.
This study establishes ECG-gated MDCT reference values for right-sided great vessel dimensions derived from a healthy population of individuals free of cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and obesity. The traditional axial PA-to-Ao discriminant value of 1 for pulmonary hypertension is a poor diagnostic tool because it encompasses normal patients and is negatively affected by age. Thoracic great vessels should be measured by CT in ECG-gated double-oblique short-axis for accurate quantitation. These data may serve as a reference to identify right-sided great vessel pathology in individuals being referred for ECG-gated MDCT imaging.
Radiologists are significantly superior to this CAD system in the detection of GGO, but the CAD system can still play a complementary role in detecting nodules with or without GGO.
Imaging using an intravascular antenna appears as a valuable assistance to increase the accuracy of vascular morphological measurements. This increase in geometrical accuracy would be beneficial during the realization of an MRI-guided intervention, either to perform pretreatment measurements or to assess the outcome of the procedure. Acquisition parameters should be tailored to vessel size and procedural time constraints.
Because diagnostic image interpretation is performed at near viewing distances, this inability to maintain focus on an image could affect diagnostic accuracy. As expected, younger residents had better accommodative accuracy than older radiologists.
Volume measurement is a promising method for the quantification of GGO nodule volume. It is important to know that different tube currents can affect the accuracy of volumetric measurements.
As tube voltage decreases, automatic tube current modulation for CT angiography yields either a significant increase in image quality at constant radiation dose or a significant decrease in radiation dose at a constant image quality.
The results demonstrated ICA works as an image filter and provides new contrast images that unambiguously segregate components in MR images. For practical application, the best performance should be obtained when T(1)W, T(2)W, and proton density images are included in the dataset for ICA.
CEUS combined with SonoVue is useful for detecting SLNs, although it may not be helpful for detecting metastases in SLNs.
This study provided important information that there was a statistically significant difference in viewing times between reduced and nonreduced digital chest radiographic images, whereas no significant difference was found in areas under the LROC curves for the accuracy of diagnosis between the two groups. However, the double-check method for chest x-ray screening would be done efficiently by changing the viewing size to improve the specificity of diagnosis.
Moonlighting is a means for radiology residents and fellows to decrease their financial burdens. Its practice appears to be widespread and it is at tolerated by most chair of radiology, although programs differ in their support of moonlighting and their acceptance of external moonlighting.
DEI based on a conventional x-ray tube allows the visualization of skeletal and soft tissues simultaneously. Although more in-depth testing and optimization of the DEI setup must be carried out, these data demonstrate a proof of principle for further development of the technology for future clinical imaging.
AD treatment puts a significant strain on caregivers. New modes of treatment delivery may be less burdensome to caregivers, thereby increasing satisfaction and potential treatment adherence. The ADCPQ was well accepted by AD caregivers and its domains demonstrated satisfactory psychometric properties. The ADCPQ is a useful tool to understand caregiver preferences for patch versus oral therapies in AD.
Topical cyclosporine 0.05% is more effective than artificial tears for the treatment of rosacea-associated lid and corneal changes.
Transrectal ultrasound provides a new imaging method to observe the male puborectalis, establishing a foundation for recognizing pelvic floor abnormalities with ultrasonography in the future.
Ketorolac 0.4% maintained significantly higher aqueous concentrations and lowered aqueous PGE(2) levels significantly more than bromfenac 0.09% at trough levels. Ketorolac 0.4% administered q.i.d. may provide a more sustained control of intraocular inflammation and pain than bromfenac 0.09% administered b.i.d.
In patients with type 2 diabetes our findings suggest that acarbose 300 mg/day is superior to voglibose 0.9 mg/day in improving postprandial hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia.
Psychiatric illness is common in HIV infected individuals, and underlines the importance for screening not only for cognitive impairment but also for co morbid mental disease in HIV-positive patients. Further studies of the neuropsychiatric complications during HIV disease and the use of psychotropics under these circumstances are clearly needed. A better understanding of the pathogenesis of HAD is essential to identify additional therapeutic strategies for prevention and treatment of this neurodegenerative disease. Studies are also needed for optimizing effective utilization of antiretrovirals into the CNS. Mania and psychosis secondary to HAD may be used as an indicator to initiate HAART, irrespective of CD4 count. Further research on the utility of HAART in the treatment of such acute neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with HIV infection should be initiated.
The results compare well to previous research on this topic. The new concepts introduced by the present study require further investigation.
It is necessary to understand a people's world view in order to understand (and influence) attitudes towards psychotic illness in themselves and other people.
The documentation on the interface between the two parallel systems contribute to establish a context against which the promulgation of the legislation to formally integrate and regulate African traditional health practice in South Africa can be considered. South African policy makers may now have ensured that a multi-faceted, multi-cultural and multi-cosmological context for health and mental health care delivery has come to pass. To health administrators, though, the inclusion of traditional healers into the formal public health system and mental health may still prove to be too costly to implement.
Investigators recruited mainly normotensive patients or patients with well-controlled hypertension who were at low overall vascular risk, which resulted in a low rate of microalbuminuria. Studies were powered for retinal and not renal end points.
Candesartan, 32 mg/d, for 4.7 years did not prevent microalbuminuria in mainly normotensive patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.
Only 17 participants had dialysis.
In adults with vascular disease but without macroalbuminuria, the effects of telmisartan on major renal outcomes were similar to those of placebo.
Clinicians may have recognized some aneurysms but did not document them in the EMR.
Clinicians neglect to note a substantial proportion of new aortic dilations in the EMR. The findings highlight the need for better strategies to ensure documentation of follow-up of tests.
The analyses were cross-sectional, the measures were self-reported, and the sample contained an average of 4 patients per physician.
Adverse work conditions are associated with adverse physician reactions, but no consistent associations were found between adverse work conditions and the quality of patient care, and no associations were seen between adverse physician reactions and the quality of patient care.
The USPSTF concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening for visual acuity for the improvement of outcomes in older adults. (I statement).
A relatively small number of primary studies and methodological shortcomings made it difficult to reach conclusions with a high degree of confidence. In addition, studies not published in English and studies of community- or home-based screening were not included.
More research is needed to understand why direct evidence shows no benefits of screening, even though impaired visual acuity is common and effective treatments are available.
Participants who received the Internet intervention for insomnia significantly improved their sleep, whereas the control group did not have a significant change. The Internet appears to have considerable potential in delivering a structured behavioral program for insomnia.
Different ARMSs and their clinical outcomes may be reliably identified on an individual basis by assessing patterns of whole-brain neuroanatomical abnormalities. These patterns may serve as valuable biomarkers for the clinician to guide early detection in the prodromal phase of psychosis.
Individuals with severe mental disorder had only negligible excess rates of contact for heart disease. Given their excess mortality from heart disease and lower rates of invasive procedures after first contact, it would seem that the treatment for heart disease offered to these individuals in Denmark is neither sufficiently efficient nor sufficiently intensive. This undertreatment may explain part of their excess mortality.
The GSK3beta gene may have a role in determining regional GM volume differences of the right hippocampus and bilateral superior temporal gyri. The association between genotype and brain structure was specific to the patients with MDD, suggesting that GSK3beta genotypes might interact with MDD status. We speculate that this is a consequence of regional neocortical, glial, or neuronal growth or survival. In considering core cognitive features of MDD, the association of GSK3beta polymorphisms with structural variation in the temporal lobe and hippocampus is of particular interest in the context of other evidence for structural and functional abnormalities in the hippocampi of patients with MDD.
The efficacy of ECT is substantially increased by the addition of an antidepressant medication, but such medications may differ in whether they reduce or increase cognitive adverse effects. High-dose, right-sided, unilateral ECT is at least equivalent to moderate-dosage bilateral ECT in efficacy, but retains advantages with respect to cognitive adverse effects.
Associations between family history of a disorder and clinical features of that disorder in probands showed consistent direction of effects across depression, anxiety disorder, alcohol dependence, and drug dependence. For these disorder types, family history is useful for determining patients' clinical prognosis and for selecting cases for genetic studies.
This meta-analysis provides direct evidence for familial coaggregation of schizophrenia and BD, a finding that argues against the view that these disorders are entirely discrete diagnostic entities. Rather, a continuum model is supported.
This study, the first to our knowledge that examines the efficacy of a glutamatergic agent in the treatment of trichotillomania, found that N-acetylcysteine demonstrated statistically significant reductions in trichotillomania symptoms. No adverse events occurred in the N-acetylcysteine group, and N-acetylcysteine was well tolerated. Pharmacologic modulation of the glutamate system may prove to be useful in the control of a range of compulsive behaviors.
Stringent tests of homotypic and heterotypic prediction patterns suggest a more developmentally and diagnostically nuanced picture in comparison with the previous literature. The putative link between adolescent and young adult depression was not supported. Oppositional defiant disorder was singular in being part of the developmental history of a wide range of young adult disorders.
This is the first GWAS and follow-up study to identify a genome-wide significant association in alcohol dependence. Further independent studies are required to confirm these findings.
While gender differences in most lifetime mental disorders were fairly stable over the time-space units studied, substantial intercohort narrowing of differences in major depression was found to be related to changes in the traditionality of female gender roles. Additional research is needed to understand why this temporal narrowing was confined to major depression.
Xylitol oral syrup administered topically 2 or 3 times daily at a total daily dose of 8 g was effective in preventing early childhood caries.
Despite universal health insurance, SES-related inequality affects hospitalization and, possibly, mortality rates among medically vulnerable infants.
In rural Nepal, maternal stunting and wasting and large infant head circumference carried higher risk of neonatal asphyxia. Maternal-fetal disproportion resulted in a synergistic elevation in asphyxia risk.
Project ALERT was not effective when delivered to the sixth grade population we targeted.
Findings suggest that concerns about online advergames that market unhealthy foods are justified. However, advergames may also be used to promote healthier foods and beverages. This kind of social marketing approach could tip the scales toward the selection of higher-quality snacks, thereby helping to curb the obesity epidemic.
Team sports participation clearly plays a protective role against established smoking, even in the face of exposure to movie smoking. However, movie smoking exposure increases the risk of established smoking among both team sports participants and nonparticipants. Parents, teachers, coaches, and clinicians should be aware that encouraging team sports participation in tandem with minimizing early exposure to movie smoking may offer the greatest likelihood of preventing youth smoking.
Integration of mental health and STI programs for youth is warranted. Further research is needed to elucidate how depression may influence the prevalence of STI among black men.
The tension between maintaining hope and accepting the reality of the prognosis may lessen when acknowledging that parents see their role as bearers of hope. Supporting families around the changing nature of hope may allow health care professionals to partner with parents while maintaining honest communication.
The number of ARPs being performed in 36 free-standing children's hospitals is decreasing each year relative to several operations commonly performed at these institutions. Despite this overall annual decrease, there is tremendous variation between individual hospitals in how frequently ARPs are being performed relative to these procedures.
Australian GP registrars will observe a research culture only if they encounter clinician-researchers paid to practice and conduct research in their general practice.
DesignGG allows users to intelligently select and allocate individuals to experimental units and conditions such as drug treatment. The user can maximize the power and resolution of detecting genetic, environmental and interaction effects in a genome-wide or local mode by giving more weight to genome regions of special interest, such as previously detected phenotypic quantitative trait loci. This will help to achieve high power and more accurate estimates of the effects of interesting factors, and thus yield a more reliable biological interpretation of data. DesignGG is applicable to linkage analysis of experimental crosses, e.g. recombinant inbred lines, as well as to association analysis of natural populations.
Our work demonstrates the possibility of designing multitargeting dsRNA to suppress more than one disease-altering gene. This warrants further investigation as a possible therapeutic approach.
Considering the number of single-SNP tests performed and null gene-level results, we conclude that NFKBIA and NFKBIB are not likely to harbor ovarian cancer risk alleles. Due to its biological significance in ovarian cancer, additional genes encoding NF-kappaB subunits, activating and inhibiting molecules, and signaling molecules warrant interrogation.
MMP-1, -2, -8, -9, -10, -11, -12, -13, -15, -19, -23, -24, -27 and -28 might thus be associated with breast cancer development and tumor progression. Therefore, these MMPs are proper candidates for further functional analysis of their role in breast cancer.
Our results indicated that TNBC patients in Taiwan have worse 5-year overall survival than non-TNBC patients. Notably, in node-positive patients, TNBC played a prognostic role in 5-year overall survival.
This study provides evidence for a model that links patients' status with regard to biology (blood pressure), symptoms, and functionality (HRQOL) and may prove useful in guiding follow-up of patients who receive treatment for hypertension. Identification of patient's symptoms, blood pressure, complication/comorbidity and changes in functioning may help clinicians increase their effectiveness in helping patients maintain adherent behaviour with drug and non drug interventions in chronic diseases such as hypertension.
These novel results suggest that calpain-1 is commonly active in carotid artery atherosclerotic plaques, and that calpain activity is colocalized with cell death and inversely associated with symptoms.
Histoenzymatic COX staining of a liver biopsy is fast and yields crucial data about the pathogenesis; it indicates whether mtDNA should be assayed. Each time a mitochondrial disorder is suspected and muscle data are non-diagnostic, a liver biopsy should be recommended. Mosaics are probably more frequent than observed until now. A novel pathogenic mutation in POLG is reported.Tentative explanations for the mitochondrial mosaics are, in one patient, unequal partition of mutated mitochondria during mitoses, and in two others, an interaction between products of several genes required for mtDNA maintenance.
We have established a useful new tool to label grafts in Xenopus transplantation experiments.
By comparing four fern cp genome sequences it was confirmed that two major rearrangements distinguish higher leptosporangiate ferns from basal fern lineages. The Alsophila cp genome is very similar to that of the polypod fern Adiantum in terms of gene content, gene order and GC content. However, there exist some striking differences between them: the trnR-UCG gene represents a putative molecular apomorphy of tree ferns; and the repeats observed at one inversion endpoint may be a vestige of some unknown rearrangement(s). This work provided fresh insights into the fern cp genome evolution as well as useful data for future phylogenetic studies.
Paleoclimate reconstructions have shown that the Early Neogene of India was marked by major environmental changes, with the transition from a zonal- to the current monsoon-dominated climate. After arrival in the Western Ghats-Sri Lanka hotspot, toads diversified in situ, with only one lineage able to successfully disperse out of these mountains. Consequently, higher taxonomic level endemism on the Indian Subcontinent is not only the result of Cretaceous isolation, but also of invasion, isolation and radiation of new elements after accretion to the Eurasian mainland.
As advocated in current healthcare reforms, our study confirms the need to promote greater GP involvement in integrated care models and enhance their training in mental health--thereby helping to reverse the trend among GPs of transferring SMD patients to specialized care. Patients with stable SMDs ought to have the same care access as the general population.
We have compiled a set of high quality HKGs that should provide higher and more consistent expression when used as references in laboratory experiments than currently used HKGs. The comparison of genomic features between HKGs and TEGs shows that HKGs are more conserved than TEGs in terms of functions, expression pattern and polymorphisms. In addition, our results identify chromatin structure and epigenetic features of HKGs and TEGs that are likely to play an important role in regulating their strikingly different expression patterns.
An educational program should be set up to explain to Vaccination staff the value and worth of voluntary compared to mandatory vaccination and why high vaccination rates do not have to depend on compulsion.
We used mathematical modeling to explore the impact of Indonesian health system interventions on tuberculosis treatment outcome and deaths. Because detailed data were not available regarding the current Indonesian population, we relied on expert opinion to quantify the parameters. The fact that the model output showed similar results to epidemiological data suggests that the experts had an accurate understanding of this subject, thereby reassuring the quality of our predictions. The model highlighted the potential effectiveness of active case finding of tuberculosis patients with limited access to DOTS facilities in the developing country setting.
These results suggest that the INSIG2 rs7566605 variant does not play a major role in determining obesity risk in a racially and ethnically diverse sample of 24,722 individuals from four cohorts.
These data demonstrate that activation of GF signaling pathways, independent of HER2 over-expression, could be contributing to the poor prognosis of the luminal-B ER+ BC subtype.
The identification of multiple transcription start sites (TSS) upstream of the annotated first exon of human SHBG, and the detection of the alternative transcripts in human prostate, concur with the prediction of the ENCODE (ENCyclopedia of DNA Elements) project, and suggest that the regulation of SHBG is much more complex than previously reported.
Fibromyalgia is prevalent in the low socioeconomic status population assisted by the public primary health care system. Prevalence was similar to other studies (4.4%) in a more diverse socioeconomic population. Individuals with FM and WP have significant impact in their well being.
The AS-WIS is a self-administered scale which meets the stringent requirements of modern measurement. Used as a screening tool it can identify those experiencing a mismatch at work who are at risk of job retention problems and work disability. Work instability is emerging as an important indication for the use of biologics, thus the AS-WIS has the potential to become an important outcome measure.
Our results reveal the functional interdependency of HaDREB2 and HaHSFA9 in seeds. HaDREB2 differs from other previously characterized DREB2 factors in plants in terms of its unique functional interaction with the seed-specific HaHSFA9 factor. No functional interaction between HaDREB2 and HaHSFA9 was observed when both factors were conjointly overexpressed in vegetative tissues. We therefore suggest that additional, seed-specific factors, or protein modifications, could be required for the functional interaction between HaDREB2 and HaHSFA9.
The Extended Wigglesworth and Amended Aberdeen systems cannot be recommended for classification of stillbirths. Overall, CODAC performed best with PSANZ-PDC and ReCoDe performing well. Tulip was shown to have the best agreement and a low proportion of unexplained stillbirths. The virtues of these systems need to be considered in the development of an international solution to classification of stillbirths. Further studies are required on the performance of classification systems in the context of developing countries. Suboptimal agreement highlights the importance of instituting measures to ensure consistency for any classification system.
Using human visual pattern-recognition capacities to detect the onset of unexpected health events implies a convenient image representation of epidemiological surveillance and well-trained "epidemiology watchers". Once these two conditions are met, one could imagine that the epidemiology watchers could signal epidemiological alerts, based on "image walls" presenting the local, regional and/or national surveillance patterns, with specialized field epidemiologists assigned to validate the signals detected.
Our findings suggest that an emphasis on scientific discourse, relative to other arguments made in legislative testimony, might help produce political outcomes that favor public health.
Based on these results, we advocated that heightened concerns targeting the adolescents of migrant workers be particularly necessary, given their higher level of sexual experience, lower socioeconomic status, restricted reproductive health information, and vulnerability to HIV/STI.
While respiratory rate is increased in both adult and infant influenza-infected cotton rats, the volume of air exchanged per minute (minute volume) is increased in the infant animals only. This is likely to be a consequence of greater lung elastance in the very young animals. This model replicates many respiratory features of humans and consequently may be a useful tool to investigate new strategies to treat respiratory disease in influenza-infected infants.
Synergy factors are easy to use and clear to interpret. Calculations may be performed through the Excel programmes provided within this article. Unlike logistic regression analysis, the method can be applied to datasets of any size, however small. It can be applied to primary or summarised data, e.g. published data. It can be used with any type of susceptibility factor, provided the data are dichotomised. Novel features include power estimation and meta-analysis.
This study revealed a high prevalence of antibacterial resistance and virulence determinants in S. aureus from food handlers in Kuwait restaurants justifying the screening of food handlers to detect and treat carriers and protect restaurant customers from staphylococcal food poisoning.
Primer optimisation is important for improving the performance of RT-qPCR assays monitored by UPL probes. This approach would also be beneficial to the performance of other RT-qPCR assays such as those using other types of probes or fluorescent intercalating dyes.
The three year results of the LADIS study suggest that in older adults who seek medical attention for non-disabling complaints, severe age related changes in white matter independently and strongly predict rapid global functional decline.
In trained military subjects, a training which includes repeated diving exposures and endurance exercises leads to vascular modifications suggesting an increase in central arterial compliance. There was no sign of arterial alteration induced by repeated diving exposures.
The absence of an EIGR in nine out of 11 participants suggests that lactate could play a major role in the EIGR in humans.
There is a relationship between plasma cortisol concentration and subjective anxiety and self-confidence states during rock climbing. Changes in the way the safety rope is organised can impact on anxiety, cortisol concentration and self-confidence during rock climbing.
Considering the injury profile, the prevalence of associated musculoskeletal complaints, and the high physiological demands of refereeing, it appears that injury prevention programmes should be developed and integrated into the fitness training routine of the referee.
The study shows that local pain in the quadriceps is capable of modulating movements with high knee joint dynamics. The results may have implications in the management of muscle pain and prevention of injuries during activities involving the knee joint.
There is strong pilot-level evidence supporting the use of prolotherapy, polidocanol, autologous whole blood and platelet-rich plasma injections in the treatment of LE. Rigorous studies of sufficient sample size, assessing these injection therapies using validated clinical, radiological and biomechanical measures, and tissue injury/healing-responsive biomarkers, are needed to determine long-term effectiveness and safety, and whether these techniques can play a definitive role in the management of LE and other tendinopathies.
Variants within the MMP3 gene are associated with Achilles tendinopathy. Furthermore, the MMP3 gene variant rs679620 and the COL5A1 marker rs12722 interact to modify the risk of tendinopathy. These data further support a genetic contribution to a common sports related injury.
OSICS-10 is a more encompassing system than OSICS-8 to use in classifying sports medicine diagnoses, and has a moderate level of inter-rater reliability. Further minor revision may be required to address lack of detail in some strain, effusion and contusion codes.
Sex differences exist for symptom reporting after aerobic exercise. Both genders report increases in somatic symptoms, but only women report decreases in emotional symptoms. The concept of being "asymptomatic" after exercise should be reconsidered to include expected mild increases and decreases in certain symptoms.
Match injury incidence increased with age, indicating greater risk with higher intensity of play. Training injury incidence was relatively low, but training injuries were responsible for a quarter of all match unavailability and may thus have a profound impact on team performance and should be the object of preventive measures.
Increased physical activity in middle age is eventually followed by a reduction in mortality to the same level as seen among men with constantly high physical activity. This reduction is comparable with that associated with smoking cessation.
Myopic children may be more at risk of having lower levels of PA than their non-myopic peers, although the difference was modest.
Persistent myopathy in patients taking statins reflects structural muscle damage. A lack of elevated levels of circulating creatine phosphokinase does not rule out structural muscle injury. Upregulation of the expression of ryanodine receptor 3 is suggestive of an intracellular calcium leak.
Prescriptions and expenditures for cardiovascular medications in Canada escalated over the study period. Projected increases may reach potentially unsustainable levels. Greater emphasis on the use of cost-effective medications is required to limit further increases. Factors influencing interprovincial differences warrant further study.
A shared electronic decision-support system to support the primary care of diabetes improved the process of care and some clinical markers of the quality of diabetes care. (ClinicalTrials.gov trial register no. NCT00813085.).
The result of this paper is a quantitative "model rule" that could be included in future legislation or used as a basis for active management by a future "carbon fed" or other regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the US carbon market to actively manage allowance prices.
Obesity and type 2 diabetes, owing to their effects on adipocytokines and inflammatory mediators, contribute to increased breast cancer risk in premenopausal women. This study emphasizes healthy life style and better management of these metabolic disorders to avoid the pathogenesis of breast cancer and of other chronic diseases.
The detection of apical aneurysm by echocardiography in HCM patients may be complicated. Ventricular tachycardia arising from the scarred aneurysm wall may often occur predisposing to sudden death.
Although the 25-year survival was excellent after pediatric coronary bypass for Kawasaki disease, the event-free rate declined progressively. This reality mandated continued follow-up. Reinterventions successfully managed most cardiac events. An internal thoracic artery graft was the most favorable for children.
This study establishes the feasibility of a novel paradigm for AF ablation: direct visualization to guide catheter ablation of the left atrial-PV junction.
Although there is room for improvement, particularly in very-high-risk patients, these results indicate that lipid-lowering therapy is being applied much more successfully than it was a decade ago.
On the basis of this preliminary evidence, rFVIIa may be beneficial for treating bleeding after cardiac surgery, but caution should be applied and further clinical trials are required because there is an increase in the number of critical serious adverse events, including stroke, in those patients randomized to receive rFVIIa.
In our rat model, exercise training was found to be beneficial in stable PH but detrimental in progressive PH. Future studies are necessary to address the clinical implications of our findings.
Urinary NT-proBNP excretion is lower in patients with CHF compared with control subjects and is inversely related to plasma NT-proBNP. Urinary NT-proBNP is associated with renal plasma flow but not with estimated glomerular filtration rate. Elevated levels of plasma NT-proBNP in patients with CHF might be explained not only by myocardial stress but also by a marked decrease in urinary excretion.
We demonstrated that a direct inhibition of PHDs, and more particularly PHD3, promoted therapeutic revascularization. Furthermore, we showed that activation of the HIF-1 signaling pathway is required to promote this revascularization.
If further validation is achieved, this score may be useful to predict outcome in individual patients with asymptomatic aortic stenosis to select those who might benefit from early surgery.
Coronary angiography is associated with a significantly increased frequency of pain, tenderness, and depression after 6 mo, apparent in both patients undergoing coronary procedures and patients with normal coronaries. This association may impact the outcome of patients with significant coronary disease.
In this prospective, observational study, the use of a carbon-coated stent for treatment of lesions in patients with STEMI or NSTEMI was associated with a low late loss, translating into a low binary angiographic restenosis rate within a 6-mo follow-up.
Significantly higher BNP levels in patients with previous MI and IVCD suggest more severe heart failure than in their counterparts without IVCD with comparable LV ejection fraction.
Traumatic aortic disruptions must be considered in children and adolescents who survive serious chest trauma. Family members of pediatric and young adult patients with trauma-associated aortic dissection may need to be evaluated for possible risk of aortic dissection.
We found a high prevalence of methamphetamine abuse in our study population. Methamphetamine abusers had echocardiographic findings of more severe dilated cardiomyopathy compared with non-abusers.
It seems that the presence of MRCT has prognostic significance, predicting a higher-than-average mortality rate.
A short maximum voluntary contraction of the muscles of the lower extremities with persistent physiologic breathing did not have an abnormal effect on the systemic and pulmonary hemodynamics in patients with severe chronic heart failure. The Valsalva maneuver caused significantly higher hemodynamic changes in the systemic and pulmonary system with possible negative effects.
In addition to identifying distinct patient, lesion, and procedural performance characteristics, our study, one of the largest single-center experiences in small-vessel PCI, suggests that the availability of DES substantially increased the use of SVS, as opposed to balloon-only angioplasty, in this anatomically challenging setting.
Our observations confirm the differences in the clinical picture of MI in the elderly as described previously. All patients of advanced age should be considered as having the highest risk of death and complications occurrence.
Although the outpatients received a higher rate of statin therapy, the rates of achieving the target were lower. There is still a significant gap between the guidelines and clinical practice in statin intervention among these CHD outpatients, particularly for women.
Interventional treatment using SES in left main lesions showed favorable short-term and long-term outcomes in selected patients with lesion location being an important determinant of clinical and angiographic outcomes.
In low-risk patients undergoing elective PCI, intracoronary nicardipine administration did not produce a significant cardioprotective effect in reducing postprocedural cardiac enzymes leakage.
Despite the improvement of initial TIMI flow grade, the upstream use of high-dose tirofiban did not reduce myocardial infarct size measured by CE-MRI.
The prevalence of MetS is high in indigent HF patients, and it increases the risk of death. Physicians treating patients with HF need to address the current MetS epidemic in HF.
In hypertensive patients, increased inflammatory cytokines were associated with increased incidence of AF and atrial remodeling; PPARgamma may be involved in the pathogenesis of AF by regulation of inflammation.
Predictors of PD peritonitis included Black race, transferring from HD to PD, and diabetes among women. In contrast to previous findings, CAPD and APD were similar with regard to peritonitis risk.
Hb variability is increased in patients who have CKD and are receiving ESA and is associated with an increased risk for death (even in those who are not receiving ESAs). This analysis cannot determine whether Hb variability causally affects mortality. Thus, the concept of targeting Hb variability with specific agents needs to be examined within the context of factors that affect both Hb variability and mortality.
These results indicate that obese donors are not at higher risk for long-term reduced renal function compared with nonobese donors and that the increased incidence of hypertension and other cardiovascular disease risk factors in obese donors is due to their obesity and is not further exacerbated by nephrectomy. These findings support the current practice of using otherwise healthy overweight and obese donors but emphasize the need for more intensive preoperative education and postoperative health care maintenance in this donor group.
Positron emission tomography scan will probably make the diagnosis of cyst infections easier and more accurate. Antibiotic association, including a fluoroquinolone, and the drainage of large infected cysts remain the main treatment for cyst infections.
This indicates that children followed in a multidisciplinary clinic have better outcome variables and are more likely to achieve K/DOQI targets at initiation of dialysis. They are better prepared for dialysis with electively planned catheter insertion or functioning arteriovenous grafts/fistulae.
In this cohort, peritoneal transport status no longer predicted survival, whereas Pcl remained a predictor. Increased large-pore protein loss may reflect the severity of underlying cardiovascular disease, portending a poor prognosis for these patients.
Intradialytic daptomycin administration during the last 30 min of HD is feasible, provided that larger dosages are used to compensate for intradialytic drug loss. On the basis of our findings, intradialytic doses of approximately 7 mg/kg (LP) or approximately 9 mg/kg (HP) theoretically should be bioequivalent to 6 mg/kg infused after HD. The calculated dosages are mathematically driven and must be validated in prospective clinical trials.
These data highlight the prominent and growing challenge facing the field of kidney transplantation. Older candidates are now at significant risk for not surviving the interval in which a deceased-donor transplant would become available. Importantly, this risk is variable within this population, and specific information should be disseminated to patients and caregivers to facilitate informed decision-making and potential incentives to seek living donors.
The incidence reported in this study may be used to inform patients of the minimum risk of developing EPS on PD.
The inflammation markers IL-6 and hsCRP are independently associated with major cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality in renal transplant recipients.
Combined use of Medicare Parts A and B billing claims composes a sensitive measure of cardiovascular events after kidney transplant. Further research is needed to define algorithms that maximize specificity as well as sensitivity of claims from Medicare and other insurers as research measures in this population.
It was found that PET test ultrafiltration volume in routine clinical practice was not affected by CRP, hyperglycemia, or extracellular fluid volume overload. Ultrafiltration volumes were increased in those patients with reduced serum sodium and albumin, most likely because of inflammation and protein malnutrition.
The parallel decrease in the incidence of CIN and AEs in one arm of this randomized trial supports a causal role for CIN.
The prevalence of CTOs in patients with stable angina pectoris is high, and it influences the clinical outcome within the first year. The therapeutic strategy is influenced towards a rather conservative approach and lower rates of interventional therapy.
The ONTARGET/TRANSCEND cardiac MRI substudy protocol provides for a reliable assessment of the effects of telmisartan and ramipril, alone and in combination, on cardiac structural and functional parameters over a 2-year follow-up period.
Our results suggest that early outcome could be improved if patients were referred earlier for surgery. A multidisciplinary approach is necessary, involving at least specialists in intensive care medicine, cardiology, infectious disease and cardiac surgery in order to identify the optimal time for surgery and decrease early mortality.
Percutaneous closure of paravalvular fistulas is feasible and a safe method for the treatment of significant shunts after valve surgery. Even in multiple fistulas, the implantation of small devices allows for a focussed interventional closure of such leaks. This procedure should be considered for such defects as it represents a safe method for the causative treatment in paravalvular lesions after valve surgery especially in patients with critical hemodynamic conditions.
The authors propose that CSIs may be efficacious in part by reducing glucocorticoid enhancement of CRH action in neurons of the central nucleus of the amygdala and other structures outside the endocrine hypothalamus. Possible effects of systemically administered CSIs on glucocorticoid receptor regulation, neuroactive steroids, and classical monoamine systems are also discussed. We conclude that available clinical data suggest a potential role for CSIs in the management of depressive disorders, especially major depression with psychotic features.
The results of this study suggest that young age and additional rTMS sessions are associated with a ong duration of rTMS effects and therefore future trials investigating the effects of maintenance rTMS treatment need to explore further the implication of these factors for depression remission.
MBCT may be effective at relieving anxiety and depressive symptoms in patients with panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder. However, well-designed, randomized controlled trials are needed.
We found a disparity in antidepressant use for Mexican Americans compared to non-Latino Whites that was not accounted for by differences in need and factors associated with access to care. About one third of antidepressant use was by respondents not meeting criteria for depressive or anxiety disorders. Our findings underscore the importance of disaggregating Latino ethnic groups. Additional work is needed to understand the medical and economic value of antidepressant use beyond their primary clinical targets.
Differences in clinical and personality variables between those receiving treatment for MDD as part of an RCT versus in a clinic exist; however, the clinical significance of these differences remains in question, as these variables were unrelated to treatment outcome.
The presence of certain baseline characteristics indicated a greater likelihood of worsened depression during antidepressant treatment. Patients with these characteristics should be monitored closely during treatment and may be candidates for more aggressive treatment.
This retrospective case series suggests that youth with TTM maybe responsive to pharmacological interventions with SRIs and/or antipsychotic agents, although the response seemed to be more robust with antipsychotics. These preliminary findings will need to be replicated in a larger scale controlled design.
Mature defense style predicts good response to FLX therapy in major depression. This association was not found in the psychotherapy group. The results may imply that patients with immature defenses benefit relatively more from brief psychotherapy than medication. PM measured by the PMS was not useful in predicting recovery in MDD.
The results of this study suggest that celecoxib may be an effective adjuvant agent in the management of patients with major depression and anti-inflammatory therapies should be further investigated.
ample evidence exists for the short-term benefit of pediatric anxiety treatment, but evidence is still lacking for the understanding of treatment's role in the facilitation of healthy development into adulthood. Recommendations for future research are proposed.
This study demonstrates the feasibility and modest success of GCBT methods in improving hoarding symptoms. Group treatment may be especially valuable because of its cost-effectiveness, greater client access to trained clinicians, and reduction in social isolation and stigma linked to this problem. Further research is needed to improve the efficacy of GCBT methods for hoarding and to examine durability of change, predictors of outcomes, and processes that influence change.
Efforts to retain patients in antidepressant treatment should focus especially on less educated patients with lower household incomes and younger patients.
This effort demonstrated the feasibility of linking complex, interconnected disease states, impact points, outcomes, and interventions with a variety of outcome metrics, to an extent greater than existing models developed for other purposes. The project demonstrated the ability to identify priority technologies and pipeline therapies and leverage points among diabetes interventions. It demonstrated more effective knowledge management of diverse information essential for formulating strategy that could be applied in a wide range of therapeutic applications and technology innovation uses.
In people with type 2 diabetes, positive perceptions and attitudes about insulin therapy have greater influence than the type of IDS used on IDS satisfaction.
Our 12-month audit data demonstrate that the initiation of inhaled insulin in this difficult-to-treat group of patients resulted in a significant improvement in glycemic control. The subsequent withdrawal of an alternative and acceptable form of insulin treatment now presents a renewed challenge for our patients and healthcare professionals.
A teleassistance system using real-time transmission of blood glucose results with an option to make telephone consultations is feasible in the primary care setting as a support tool for family physicians in their follow-up of type 2 diabetes patients.
Insulin pen devices were used by most patients starting insulin, but a substantial proportion of patients continued to be prescribed syringes for insulin delivery. The use of pen devices was positively associated with specialist care and negatively associated with insulin initiation during hospitalization. Increasing physicians' awareness of the benefits of pen devices to facilitate patient self-management could further increase their use and improve diabetes care.
These results suggest that the gene delivery efficacy to isolated islets can be improved by manipulating the transfection conditions. Polymeric vectors will broaden the options for islet transfection, which is currently limited to viral vectors.
Acute increases in pancreatic cholinergic activity in vivo were detected in the pancreata of nonhuman primates with NGT and IGT after intravenous dextrose infusion on [18F]FBT PET. In subjects with IGT, this activity was significantly higher, suggesting increased autonomic nervous system stimulation of the pancreatic islets in insulin-resistant subjects.
This study is the first report to document the glucose profile of Asian people with NGT.
The results show that galvanic skin resistance, at any environmental temperature, may be a good means of assessing vascular damage and impaired sweat response in people with diabetes.
Although colon cancers are molecularly heterogeneous, rectal cancers arise mostly via a single neoplastic pathway. Genetic and molecular differences influence prognosis more than anatomic location and suggest that oncogenic pathways contribute to survival differences between colon and rectal cancers.
Abdominoperineal excision rates vary considerably between centers. Gender and deprivation status independently predict formation of a permanent stoma. These results have important implications for intercenter comparisons of surgical quality and may suggest inequalities in health care provision.
Advanced age and black race contribute to adjuvant chemotherapy delays and inferior outcomes, but postoperative recovery is the more important driver.
Provided strict selection criteria are used, intersphincteric resection may be the optimal sphincter-preserving surgery for low rectal cancer.
Diverticular-associated colitis is a distinct entity that presents with segmental colitis and a variety of clinical, endoscopic, and pathologic features. Diverticular-associated colitis should be considered in the presence of recurrent symptoms after resection for diverticulitis.
Preoperative administration of methylprednisolone in colon cancer patients may improve pulmonary performance and postoperative pain, and shorten length of stay regardless of the surgical technique used (laparoscopy, open colon resection).
Continence after overlapping sphincter repair deteriorates in the long term. Long-term outcome was worse for patients who were older at the time of surgery or those with two or more vaginal births. The Bristol Stool Form Scale score correlates with the severity of incontinence, and may be used to guide the management of the patient's symptoms.
Anal sphincter repair for localized sphincter defects may achieve excellent/good long-term functional results in 67 percent of patients, as judged by patients. Despite repair, continence remained significantly inferior in patients as compared with healthy control subjects. In addition, sexual function was significantly diminished in patients as compared with controls, but no correlation with the severity of fecal incontinence was found.
Submucosal injection of NASHA Dx gel is an effective treatment for fecal incontinence. The effect is sustained for at least 12 months. The treatment is associated with low morbidity.
For nearly all rectal adenomas, transanal endoscopic microsurgery is safe, feasible, and has excellent results.
Tumor border configuration, Ki67, urokinase plasminogen activator receptor, and Raf-1 kinase inhibitor protein immunohistochemistry are highly predictive of vascular invasion and may play a decisive role in individualizing adjuvant treatment.
Males have a larger overall mesorectal package compared with females, mainly caused by mesorectal fat. The anterior mesorectal fat is significantly thinner in females than in males. Such morphologic differences may affect resection margin status.
Because patients with HIV infections have a high prevalence of unreported anal lesions that may be highly contagious, involve risk of anal neoplasia, or negatively affect quality of life, systematic anal screening should be conducted in the HIV-infected population.
A postchemoradiotherapy CEA level &lt;5 ng/ml is a favorable prognostic factor for rectal cancer and is associated with increased rates of earlier disease staging and complete tumor regression. Postchemoradiotherapy CEA levels may be useful in decision making for patients who may be candidates for alterative treatment strategies.
Cetuximab plus irinotecan-based therapy showed promising antitumor activity even in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer refractory to irinotecan and oxaliplatin. In addition, discrepancies in the expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor detected by the clone H11 antibody and the PharmDx kit were observed.
Surgical resection can be performed safely in patients with isolated pancreatic metastases from colorectal cancer and in selected patients with associated extrapancreatic disease. Although long-term survival is rare, surgery should be included, whenever possible, in the multimodality approach to this disease.
Chromoendoscopy is superior to white light colonoscopy, autofluorescence imaging, and narrow-band imaging for detection of diminutive colorectal lesions in adenomatous polyposis.
Platelet-derived growth factor-BB levels were greater in patients with colorectal cancer (vs. patients with adenoma) and rose with increasing disease severity. Unfortunately, however, the modest differences between categories do not permit accurate stage determination.
We suggest that this surgical procedure may successfully be applied to a large majority of the patients. It does not lead to unnecessary excision of healthy tissue because of its significantly simpler nature compared with the full-layer flap technique and its S-type incision, it does not create a midline scar tissue, and it is able to flatten the gluteal sulcus.
The majority of surgeons create a temporary loop ileostomy at the time of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis.
The study has demonstrated hypercoagulability in patients with Cushing's syndrome manifest as increased prothrombotic activity and compensatory activation of the fibrinolytic system. We propose the introduction of thromboprophylaxis in the preoperative and early postoperative periods, combined with a close follow-up in order to prevent possible thromboembolic events in patients with Cushing's syndrome.
This integrated program offers several benefits for both the medical student and the residency program, and it is a potential model for academic residencies aiming to recruit and retain a higher percentage of their own schools' students.
Family medicine residency programs appear to address elder abuse more comprehensively than do emergency medicine and internal medicine programs. These programs may need to consider additional curriculum and clinical experience in elder abuse.
A brief interclerkship can improve medical students' oral health knowledge and be engaging. More research is needed to evaluate means to sustaining the knowledge.
Clinician empathy, as perceived by patients with the common cold, significantly predicts subsequent duration and severity of illness and is associated with immune system changes.
Inclusion of a computerized BMI chart prompt increased the likelihood that physicians would diagnose obesity in obese patients and refer them for treatment.
It is important to be aware of and responsive to factors that can influence EMR implementation and adoption. They include paying attention to computer literacy; setting aside dedicated time for EMR implementation and adoption, as well as engaging in training activities; and supporting problem-solvers in the practice. Mechanisms should be put into place to promote the movement of practices across the continuum of EMR adoption.
ICP treatment performed two hours once-a-day for four months provide excellent results with satisfactory treatment compliance. However, these effects are not durable and vanish about one year after the end of IPC treatment.
SISTs (20-30%), with little or no symptoms in the initial phases, show notable diagnostic difficulties. Their aspecific and late clinical presentation--typical of this site and of the pathology that we are talking about--and the difficult physical-instrumental approach to small bowel limit the possibility of an accurate diagnosis and expose the patient to potentially fatal acute complications and to risks related to emergency surgery treatment that decreases the possibility of a radical resection.
Use of fibrin glue does not always prevent seroma formation, but does reduce seroma magnitude, duration and evacuative punctures.
Loco-regional anesthesiological technique with posterior block, associated to general anaesthesia, has been demonstrated efficacious for the treatment of the most frequent proctological pathologies. This method allowed a low incidence of early and late complications and a more fast resolution of clinical sequelae of the surgery.
These preliminary results support subsequent evaluation of test-retest reliability, construct validity, and responsiveness to change of this quality-of-life measure for caregivers from diverse ethnicities.
The risk factors and measures to be taken to avoid this life threatening complication are discussed.
The POP-Q in the left lateral position is reliable, easy to perform, acceptable for patients, and is not a time-consuming examination.
Women seek medical advice within months of discovering their prolapse. Self-discovery is associated with higher stage prolapse than prolapse diagnosed by health care providers.
Multichannel urodynamic testing is associated with a low but significant level of pain, which generally abates shortly after the procedure. No correlation seems to exist between the degree of pain and various clinical and pelvic floor parameters.
Puborectalis muscle trauma is not associated with an increased risk of SUI or USI in a urogynecological population, even when controlling for symptoms or signs of prolapse and previous surgery.
DM is the most important independent determinant of UI.
UTI is common among pregnant cleanroom workers, and frequent voiding appears to be a protecting factor.
The 1-year outcome after repair of OASIS appears to be good when repaired by doctors after structured training.
By service redesigning, the UTC has reduced the number of clinic visits and patient journey time and has also shown that the majority of women with incontinence can be adequately managed by a specialist nurse.
Prophylactic Burch colposuspension at the time of abdominal sacrocolpopexy has not been uniformly implemented into clinical practice by AUGS members since the publication of the CARE Trial.
VN was strongly related to many symptoms of pelvic floor dysfunction, but it was only causing a little bother.
Concurrent vaginal hysterectomy is associated with increased risk of vaginal mesh erosion. Combined anterior and posterior vaginal mesh repair is an increased risk factor for intraoperative bleeding and blood transfusion.
Using decision analysis methods, prophylactic antibiotics are favored for prevention of UTI during CISC to manage voiding dysfunction after prolapse/incontinence surgery.
Histopathological features of female urethral diverticula match the criteria for paraurethral cysts. Concomitant use of synthetic meshes should be avoided due to the possibility of an infectious etiology. Transvaginal excision of the sac is recommended, while transurethral procedures are contraindicated.
The transobturatory and the aponeurotic slings techniques were equally effective for the treatment of SUI. The transobturatory sling has shown fewer complications and lesser surgical time than the aponeurotic sling technique.
Vaginal caldesmon expression is significantly decreased in women with anterior vaginal wall prolapse compared to normal subjects.
Deliberate skin contamination and possible inhalation of a 25 mg MTX solution failed to show significant or quantifiable serum and urine concentrations to suggest MTX toxicity. Precautions to prevent contact with MTX designed for oncology protocols are unnecessary for our rheumatology patients or their carers using these much lower immunosuppressant doses for autoimmune diseases.
Almost all cystic fibrosis patients develop hyperglycaemia after lung transplantation, but patients with prior diabetes have more complication-related admissions to hospital and a higher mortality rate.
Successful implementation in phase two is likely to depend upon an effective data collection system integrated into usual care.
Despite the large number of available indicators, significant gaps in measurement still exist. Development of indicators to address these gaps should be a priority. Work is also required to evaluate whether existing indicators measure what they purport to measure.
We identified four independent risk factors for postoperative use of inotropic support in patients undergoing concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and arotic valve replacement surgery at the separation from cardiopulmonary bypass. The study results will be helpful to prospectively identify patients who will likely to require inotropic support at the separation from cardiopulmonary bypass.
The prescription rate of GPD with aspirin is low. Also, it seems that physicians are unaware of the risk factors related to aspirin-induced GI complications.
The existence of Hb variants may result in false HbA1c measurement. The possible presence of spuriously low HbA1c levels or abnormal HPLC chromatograms by using ion-exchange methods should be kept in mind.
This study demonstrated that AF is not a result of simple filtration from the blood but an independent fluid. We speculate that proteins or peptides in the amniotic fluid modulate the process of fetus development since they possess potent bioactivity on cellular growth and proliferation. AF provides a pathway to transport these "regulators" to the fetus and thus plays a pivotal role in fetal development.
At the same concentrations, acidic SnF(2) and AmF may be more effective than NaF to protect enamel against erosion.
Enamel can be regarded as a functionally graded natural biocomposite, which will require special attention using numerical analysis to fully appreciate the consequences of such a structure for the mechanical behaviour of teeth and restorations placed therein. Moreover, the smart design of nature can be a good model for us in functional graded materials/coatings design and development.
Specular component mode (SCE vs. SCI) significantly influenced L* values; however, the color differences affected by aging were dependent on brands and shades of the resin composites tested.
The self-etching adhesive systems created a new reinforced acid resistant dentin under the hybrid layer. Difference in the thickness of the zone expressed a different potential for demineralization inhibition.
The incorporation of Aurora reduced the extent of polymerization of the one-step adhesive, probably due to the increase in the solvent content of the mixture. It may be that enhancing solvent evaporation is important in order to reach a higher extent of polymerization during the bonding procedure.
Surprisingly, the best materials' combination for the adhesive composite core was a self-etch light cured adhesive with a chemically cured luting agent.
Optimal luting of indirect restorations is clearly dependent from light source power, irradiation time and dual-cure luting cement or light-curing composite chosen. It should be calibrated for each material to acquire high DCs. Preheating of light-curing only composites allows for the materials to reach optimal conversion degrees.
Pressed ceramic and CAD/CAM fabricated partial coverage restorations exhibited a reliable treatment option to restore larger defects in posterior teeth. Marginal degradation of the resin cement and deterioration of the all-ceramic materials during clinical function determine the clinical long-term performance of partial coverage restorations.
The interfacial strength between light-curing cement and root canal is equivalent to the interfacial strength between dual-curing cement and root canal.
These findings suggested that CENP-H involves in the development and progression of tongue cancer. CENP-H might be a valuable prognostic indicator for tongue cancer patients within early stage.
ENBDC is a useful and safe tool in the prevention of iatrogenic bile duct injuries in LC.
Preoperative single ENBD in the future remnant lobe is effective treatment for B-C type I-III hilar cholangiocarcinoma. Preoperative ENBD was rarely complicated with segmental cholangitis.
Real-time elastography is a promising sonography-based noninvasive method for the preoperative assessment of liver fibrosis.
This pilot study suggests that laparoscopic one-stage colon and liver resection is feasible and safe. Robot assistance may facilitate liver resection, increasing the number of patients who may benefit from a minimally invasive operation.
Our findings may reflect the possible cytoprotective effect of EPO in acute necrotizing pancreatitis.
This high volume retrospective data indicated the promising effect of gemcitabine-based adjuvant chemotherapy and the rational duration of adjuvant chemotherapy should be determined in the future prospective studies.
We concluded that long-term survival can be expected after ABO-incompatible LDLT provided perioperative complications such as humoral rejection are overcome.
No-touch resection of hilar malignancies with right hepatectomy and the routine use of portal reconstruction was feasible and safe. The oncologic impact of this technique merits further evaluation.
About half of the hepatic metastases from gastric cancer had seeded off micrometastases, and the presence of these micrometastases was associated with a poorer result of hepatic resection. Reduced E-cadherin expression in metastatic liver tumors may be associated with the development of micrometastases.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide increases anastomotic wound healing in experimental anastomosis in the presence of obstructive jaundice in rats.
The predictive performance of ICG k was better than those of ICG Cl and R (15).
The CLIP scoring system is the best for classifying patients with large HCC and prediction of their prognosis after surgery.
Undifferentiated carcinoma showed two patterns of cancer extension: (1) invasion and expansive growth during the sarcomatous transformation of adenocarcinoma, and (2) intraductal extension. In addition, some undifferentiated carcinomas showed extension in the MPD. Of note, postoperative pancreatic juice cytology may be useful for the diagnosis.
We demonstrated that TF expression revealed severe SEC damage in grafted liver during both acute cellular rejection and chronic rejection.
There were lymph vessels in the submucosal layer of the common bile duct, and cancer cells can spread through these channels in addition to the large lymph vessels in subserosal layer around the extrahepatic bile duct in GC. The present results would support the concept of en bloc resection of the extrahepatic bile duct in curative resection for T2 GC.
Transarterial embolization (TAE) can achieve good hemostasis, though low albumin level, which reflects poor liver reserve, may predict early mortality. Portal vein thrombosis should not be regarded as an absolute contraindication for TAE. Staged surgical resection after embolization is safe and produces a good survival outcome.
Hepatectomies conducted under low CVP are prone to postoperative hemorrhage which can be prevented if the final bleeding control is performed under high pressure in the hepatic veins. Application of our testing maneuver effectively unmasked previously undetectable bleeding veins.
These findings indicate that laparoscopic hepatectomy avoids the disadvantages of standard hepatectomy for HCC in properly selected patients with cirrhosis and that its minimal invasiveness improves patients' quality of life.
For safer laparoscopic liver resection, efficient bleeding control techniques, such as radiofrequency pre-coagulation and the liver hanging maneuver, are needed during parenchymal transection of the liver. Laparoscopy-assisted donor hepatectomy can be safely performed without increasing operative risks with mini-laparotomy.
In properly selected patients, laparoscopic hepatectomy and endoscopic ablation therapy are safe treatments for liver tumors.
The LLS 2 and 3 seem equivalent or perhaps better option compared with the same intervention performed by laparotomy and can be proposed as primary with a grade C recommendation.
Laparoscopic liver resection is safe and feasible. The laparoscopic approach can be recommended for peripheral lesions requiring limited hepatectomy or left lateral sectionectomy. Preliminary oncological results suggest non-inferiority of laparoscopic to laparotomic procedures.
Patients with prominent clockwise LR have depressed long-axis systolic velocities of the lateral wall, whereas the patients with counterclockwise LR have depressed septal wall velocities. The difference in peak amplitude of basal septal and lateral systolic velocities is predictive of LR, and in the nonischemic subgroup correlates with quantitative LV reverse remodeling at follow-up. Velocity time-based measures, including septal-lateral delay were not predictive of CRT response.
LV global load impacts LV myocardial function in asymptomatic AS independent of other main covariates of LV systolic function. LV myocardial systolic dysfunction is common in asymptomatic AS in particular in patients with low-flow AS and increased valvuloarterial afterload, whereas EF is generally preserved. (An Investigational Drug on Clinical Outcomes in Patients With Aortic Stenosis [Narrowing of the Major Blood Vessel of the Heart]; NCT00092677).
In patients with suspected CAD, CCTA has a significant prognostic impact on the prediction of cardiac events for the subsequent 18 months. The exclusion of obstructive CAD by CCTA identifies a patient population with an event risk lower than predicted by conventional risk factors.
Prospective ECG-gated DCE-MDCT accurately assesses infarct size compared with retrospective ECG-gated DCE-MDCT imaging. Although infarct SNR and CNR were significantly higher for the retrospective gated protocol, prospective ECG-gated DCE-MDCT provides high-resolution imaging of MI, while substantially lowering the radiation dose.
Adenosine stress CMR may help to identify patients at risk who benefit from intensified medical treatment and close follow-up.
For patients after surgical revascularization, the combination of stress perfusion and LGE yields good diagnostic accuracy for the detection and localization of significant stenoses. However, sensitivity is reduced compared with published data in patients without CABG. Prior myocardial infarction can be examined without loss of accuracy.
In patients undergoing mechanical reperfusion therapy for acute MI, salvage index is an independent predictor of autonomic dysfunction but does not affect its prognostic value.
The VH-IVUS analysis shows that post-PCI cTnI elevation occurs in lesions with a large necrotic core area. The VH-IVUS may play an important role in detecting which lesions are high risks for myocardial necrosis after PCI.
The proximal rim of the ostium of the side branch has been identified as a region more likely to contain thin fibrous cap and a greater proportion of necrotic core.
Our findings suggest that low syndecan-1 expression might serve as a predictive factor for malignancy in cystic tumors of the pancreas.
Type III anomalous pancreaticobiliary junction is a rare occurrence in Indian patients as compared to Japanese patients in whom the majority of cases are reported. This demographic variation is still unexplained.
As the available evidence also indicates that the relationship is biologically plausible, these results support the existence of a link between alcohol consumption and the risk of pancreatitis.
This demonstrates that the addition of sirolimus to a gemcitabine/docetaxel containing regimen can reverse tumor resistance in the clinical setting.
This is probably the first case of pancreatic metastasis from a nephroblastoma reported in a living patient. A nephroblastoma, like clear cell renal carcinoma, can be considered a possible etiology of pancreatic metastasis from a primary renal tumor.
Modern imaging techniques will probably lead to an increasing number of intrapancreatic accessory spleens being discovered, posing significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.
To our knowledge, we present for the first time, the case of a very small solid undifferentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma of the uncinate process which mimicked a side-branch intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm at imaging. The cystic appearance may be an epiphenomenon of a solid lesion and this possibility has to be considered when one encounters incidental cystic lesions at imaging.
In some case, lymphoepithelial cysts may present a diagnostic dilemma. EUS with FNA and Trucut biopsy may enable the clinician to make a definitive diagnosis.
Pancreatic metastases are usually detected during the follow-up of patients having undergone a previous nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. Typically, the interval between a nephrectomy and pancreatic metastasis is long. The literature contained more than 250 cases of pancreatic resection for metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The median duration of presentation was 10.5+/-6.5 years following a nephrectomy. The lesions are multifocal (3.2+/-1.5) in about 39% of patients and resectable in 80%. A high resectability rate is characteristic of metastasis from renal cell carcinoma as compared to primary pancreatic cancer. The five year survival rate is between 43 and 88%.
Heterotopic pancreas should be considered when making a differential diagnosis of submucosal lesions in the small bowel.
In the setting of pancreatitis, intrahepatic pancreatic pseudocyst should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cystic lesion of the liver.
A Pancreas-preserving total duodenectomy offers a safe alternative to the Whipple procedure in managing complex duodenal injury. This procedure avoids unnecessary resection of the adjacent pancreas and anastomosis to undilated hepatic and pancreatic ducts.
A preoperative work-up alone does not always allow an accurate diagnosis, but it is useful in determining lesion characteristics and guiding therapeutic decision making. When surgery is indicated, a limited resection is warranted in most cases.
When we encounter fibrotic diseases of unknown etiology, we should measure serum IgG4 concentrations and monitor the disease activity over long periods even after achieving clinical remission.
Although extremely rare, osteosarcoma metastasis should be included in the differential diagnosis of pancreatic mass lesions, particularly in patients with a primary tumor.
This case illustrates the occurrence of a rare complication (rupture of a hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm) inside the biliodigestive anastomosis after pancreaticoduodenectomy, appearing as upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Different modalities such as transarterial embolization and the use of stents give promising results, but ligation of the pseudoaneurysm and repair of the intestinal communication is also an effective modality of treatment.
Late failure of the Frey procedure due to a gastroenteric fistula to the Roux-limb of jejunum has not been previously reported. This finding may explain one of the causes of longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy late failure.
The reconstruction of the superior mesenteric-portal vein with a splenic vein autograft should be performed in selected cases. It allows a reduction of operating time, it is a less invasive approach than reconstruction using an internal jugular vein autograft and it can be an oncologically correct approach.
Due to the adoptive immunity that was transferred from anti-HBs-positive donors, a seroconversion of HBsAg could occur in some HBsAg-positive recipients. HBsAg-positive donors had a lesser effect on the HBV serologic markers of recipients. However, a reactivation of HBV can occur following hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation in the cases of recipients or donors with a history of HBV, infection by an accompanying immune suppression. Therefore, prevention should be instigated.
The prevailing HBV genotype in Korea is C2; the other genotypes occur only rarely. Future studies should include confirmation of the detection of genotypes other than C.
The prognosis in patients with ruptured HCCs was poor with a 30-day mortality of 43.5%. The early deaths after the rupture of HCC were associated with elevated serum bilirubin levels, hepatic encephalopathy, and the massive or diffuse type of tumor morphology.
In patients with a protracted illness, hepatosplenomegaly and/or abnormal liver function tests, hepatic tuberculosis should be suspected, even in healthy young patients or patients with normal imaging findings. Patients with tuberculous abscess formation tend to respond poorly to antituberculosis therapy, and surgery could be considered in these patients.
Younger children (age &lt;7 years old) have a higher chance of HBsAg clearance than older children after the treatment of HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B with lamivudine.
Clevudine is one of the recommended first-line medicines for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, but it is not free from resistance, particularly in patients with a history of previous lamivudine treatment, but also in naive patients. Clevudine should be avoided in previously lamivudine-exposed patients. In addition, reelevation of serum AST and CPK levels is not a rare occurrence, and close observation and follow-up tests are essential.
Together, these studies identify a role for both N-cadherin and MMP-2 in mediating HSC apoptosis, where N-cadherin works to provide a cell survival stimulus and MMP-2 promotes HSC apoptosis concomitant with N-cadherin degradation.
Patients with a history of depression who were not receiving antidepressants and active IDUs are more likely to fail treatment for genotype 2/3 HCV and will need additional support.
Hyperbiliverdinaemia (green jaundice) with green plasma and urine may be caused by a genetic defect in the BVR-A gene in conjunction with decompensated liver cirrhosis.
DHS may represent a hepatic form of microvascular disease in DM; the prevalence of 12% in the autopsy series suggests it is not uncommon, but in the majority of the cases, it was clinically silent.
The observations suggest that the increased macrophages in the GPC3+/C pattern are likely to be recruited macrophages, not resident macrophages, and that the expression of GPC3 in the membrane is involved in macrophage recruitment.
There is an apparent protective effect of S. mansoni coinfection against mixed cryoglobulinaemia in chronic hepatitis C patients.
TD was unexpectedly as common in patients with PBC as in patients with PSC and NAFLD, yet significantly more common than expected in the general population. Further investigation of thyroid disease in PSC and NAFLD is warranted.
Modulation of VEGF-A and VEGF-C (by ET-1) may be important for managing cholangiocarcinoma growth.
UTI appears to important cytokine and chemokine regulation in normal liver regeneration.
We conclude that hyponatraemia at any time before liver transplantation is associated with adverse post-transplant outcome, even when hyponatraemia has resolved.
Our data suggest that chronic HCV infection is associated with increased IR, which is correlated inversely with the serum adiponectin level. The complex role of adiponectin in the pathogenesis of IR and hepatic necroinflammation in chronic HCV infection merit further investigation.
This is the first report to demonstrate the genetic variations in ATGR1 that may influence the risk of NAFLD and liver fibrosis in NAFLD.
Collectively, our results suggest that HIFs may be important regulators of profibrotic and vasoactive mediators by hypoxic hepatocytes.
Patients undergoing TIPS-LBPV had a lower incidence of encephalopathy, less rehospitalization and lower costs after TIPS implantation compared with patients undergoing TIPS-RBPV.
In this study, we revealed that Tel attenuated steatohepatitis progression by suppressing the macrophage infiltration into the liver. Tel also affected the reduction of adipocyte size and elevation of serum adiponectin. Tel might serve as a new therapeutic strategy for NASH.
The results indicate that Smad3 loss confers resistance to the development of DMN-induced hepatic fibrosis. The reduced fibrotic response appears to be due to a reduction of fibrogenic myofibroblast activation and ECM production and accumulation. Smad3 could be a novel target for potential treatment of fibrosis complicating chronic hepatitis.
Within the limitations of small sample size, there does not appear to be a benefit of probiotic therapy for portal pressure reduction in patients with compensated or early decompensated cirrhosis. The reductions in endotoxin and aldosterone suggest possible beneficial effects of probiotics for this patient population. The clinical significance of the small but unexpected increase in TNF-alpha is unclear. Future studies are planned in patients with decompensated cirrhosis.
We showed that simultaneous administration of low-dose adenoviral vectors encoding human HGF and VEGF genes can induce transgene expression and liver proliferation without liver toxicity or systemic growth factor elevation.
For long-term sustainability of ITNs to be realized, results suggest that either full or partial subsidies may be necessary in some contexts to encourage households to obtain and use nets. Given the possible substitution effects of combined malaria control interventions, and the danger of not taking into consideration household preferences for malaria prevention, successful malaria control campaigns should invest a portion of their funds towards educating recipients of IRS and users of other preventive methods on the importance of net use even in the absence of mosquitoes.
Most bushfire victims either died, or survived with minor injuries. As a result of good prehospital triage and planning, the small number of patients with serious burns did not overload the acute health care system.
Access to rapid assessment and management services for TIA varies considerably between Australian hospitals. The presence of organised stroke care at a hospital leads to improved processes of care for patients presenting with TIA.
Non-invasive testing of multiple exons provides a robust method of assessing fetal RHD status, and provides a safer alternative to amniocentesis for the management of RhD-negative pregnant women who are isoimmunised.
TRPV1 activation increases TNFR1 in cultured mouse DRG neurons through a ROS signaling pathway, a novel sensitization mechanism in DRG neurons.
We have established age-adjusted reference values for serum IGF-I and for the GH response in the ITT and GHRH/GHRP-6 test.
Both NSAID use and CYP2C9*2 and/ or *3 carriage are associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer. However, no interaction between the determinants was found, which might indicate independent pathophysiological mechanisms.
Immunophenotyping of bone marrow derived mast cells is not only a very sensitive but also a very specific method to diagnose SM with high positive and negative predictive value.
Dutch clinical practice reflects the recently issued HCV guidelines. An important area of refinement in treatment of HCV is the management of side effects.
Compared with symptomatic patients,patients detected by FOBT and especially immunochemical FOBT , presented significantly more often at earlier stages suggesting increased survival. Additionally treatment could more often be confined to colonoscopy.
We have provided direct evidence for the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by renal cancer cells in a patient with RCC and a profound inflammatory response, with a central role of IL-6, probably due to a gain of chromosome 7. The extreme granulocytosis and thrombocytosis may have resulted from the secondary systemic production of G-CSF and TPO.
Conivaptan was safe and effective in this small series of neurointensive care patients, including many patients who were hyponatremic despite traditional treatments to maintain normal sodium levels. Further studies are needed to clarify the role of conivaptan as an adjunctive and/or alternative therapy for hyponatremia in this patient population.
Intermittent dosing of conivaptan was effective in increasing free water excretion and correcting hyponatremia in neurologically ill patients. This supports its further evaluation for managing hyponatremia in this population.
LVM appears to be safe for ICU patients when dosing is adjusted for renal function.
BIS-augmented sedation monitoring resulted in a marked reduction in the total dose of sedative used to achieve the same level of clinical sedation resulting in shortened time to wake up without any measurable adverse effects. Physiologic sedation assessment tools may provide a useful means of improving the care of sedated critically ill patients.
Proximate mechanisms of death after ICH occur at distinct times. Withdrawal of life support leads to earlier death in patients with a higher severity of injury. Medical causes of death can be effectively prevented after ICH.
Use of nicardipine compared with nitroprusside infusion during the first 24 h after ICH may be associated with reduced risk of in-hospital mortality without any increase in the hospitalization cost or length of stay.
This is the first study to determine symptomatic VTE incidence and to identify common risk factors by injury type in nontumor patients who are not routinely screened with venous duplex ultrasonography but receiving early IPC and LDUH. Further studies are needed to determine the overall incident of symptomatic and nonsymptomatic VTE and independent risk factors for VTE events in NSICU patients.
Methylene blue, when used in patients on antidepressant drugs, may be associated with a transient encephalopathic state and serotonin syndrome. Patients on antidepressants undergoing parathyroidectomy who may receive MB infusion should be considered for alternative parathyroid gland identification or discontinuation of the antidepressants before surgery. MB-associated serotonin syndrome is an increasing and under recognized ('green') post-operative encephalopathy that warrants education to critical care neurologists and other physicians.
Though unproven, CRRT may be beneficial in patients with IH due to gentle removal of fluid, solutes, and inflammatory cytokines. Given the limited data on safety of CRRT in patients with ABI, we encourage further reports.
We found that it is feasible to conduct a trial comparing IV vs. IA TPA in ischemic stroke patients with major vessel occlusion presenting &lt;3 h from onset. Patients treated with IA TPA showed a trend toward higher rate of recanalization. A larger trial may be designed to test safety and effectiveness of IA TPA in this specific group of stroke patients.
The angiographically negative d-SAH pattern is associated with worse presentations and outcome. These patients are at increased risk for vasospasm and hydrocephalus requiring aggressive treatment and should therefore be cared for with a higher level of surveillance.
We provide radiological evidence of hyperbaric oxygen therapy resolving intraarterial air but also demonstrate the thrombogenic potential of this procedural complication.
In this clinical trial cohort, seizures were rare after the first few hours following ICH. In addition, prophylactic AED use was associated with poor outcome independent of other established predictors. Given the potential for residual confounding in this cohort, a randomized trial needs to be performed.
Induced normothermia (fever prophylaxis via intravascular cooling catheter) is effective in reducing fever burden and may offer a means to attenuate secondary injury, as evidenced by a reduction in the intracranial hypertension burden.
The pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to BD might asymmetrically begin in cerebral hemispheres in malignant MCA infarcts.
Although high-quality clinical data are scarce, the available evidence suggests that norepinephrine should be considered as the vasopressor of choice when blood pressure elevation is indicated in patients with acute neurologic injury.
Blood glucose levels &gt;7.8 mmol/l (140 mg/dl), but not levels &gt;6.1 mmol/l (110 mg/dl), independently predicted unfavorable outcome. While blood glucose levels &gt;6.1 mmol/l (110 mg/dl) were already associated with slight metabolic derangements, cerebral glucose increased only at blood levels &gt;7.8 mmol/l (140 mg/dl). Considering the risks associated with tight glycemic control, a moderate regimen accepting blood glucose levels up to 7.8 mmol/l (140 mg/dl) might be more reasonable after SAH.
We propose that only CT scans obtained within 24 h of a subarachnoid bleeding event should be used to estimate the risk of vasospasm.
Cognitive behavioral therapy interventions are likely to be effective, but effectiveness has not been established for complementary, education or information, or exercise interventions.
Multidisciplinary research teams should test the effectiveness of interventions to reduce sleep-wake disturbances in adult patients with cancer. Settings should create the infrastructure to initiate and sustain evidence-based oncology nursing practice, clinicians should educate the public about sleep, and public policies should promote adoption of healthy sleep patterns and early diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders.
Help seeking was defined as a response to health changes as well as a part of the broader process of health-seeking behavior. Reviewed frameworks and models provided knowledge and understanding about help-seeking behavior in various contexts. However, an all-encompassing framework explaining the entire process was not identified.
Nurses are in a unique position to promote prompt help seeking for patients with self-discovered cancer symptoms. Gaining clarity on the concept and identifying a theoretical framework may help nurses understand the complex nature of help seeking in patients with self-discovered cancer symptoms.
Women with breast cancer experience successful physical and emotional adjustment whether they have intimate-partner, family-member, or nonfamily-member partners. Intimate partners are at greater risk for emotional and social adjustment issues.
When designing interventions, consideration must be given to the type of patient-partner dyad involved.
Dry heat application decreases the likelihood of multiple IV insertion attempts and procedure time and is comfortable, safe, and economical to use in an outpatient oncology setting.
The findings supported the existence of the symptom cluster that had detrimental effects on QOL.
This study shed light on a contemporary approach of grouping several related symptoms together. The findings enhance nurses' clinical sensitivity when identifying patients in high-risk groups and provide useful information for designing and prioritizing symptom-management strategies to meet patients' needs.
Nurse-led educational interventions have the potential to reduce fatigue in patients with GI cancer receiving chemotherapy for the first time.
The administration of chemotherapy should be preceded by a formal fatigue assessment and the provision of individually tailored educational interventions to reduce the severity of fatigue and improve QOL.
Music therapy is not a consistent concept. Perspectives on the meanings of music therapy vary according to knowledge and scientific orientation. The perspective may influence the character and methodology of the music therapy intervention as well as the understanding of its results.
To fully develop music therapy as an adjunct intervention in adult cancer care, interdisciplinary cooperation between nurses and music therapists should be supported on clinical and educational levels.
Participants were satisfied with the cancer care they received, with a few exceptions. The role of age and education level in perceived discrimination needs further exploration.
Replication of this study with larger, culturally diverse samples is needed to increase understanding of the role of perceived discrimination in cancer care and to develop culturally responsive, evidence-based healthcare interventions for patients and families coping with cancer.
Centering prayer can potentially benefit women with recurrent ovarian cancer. Additional research is needed to assess its feasibility and effectiveness.
Nurses may promote or suggest centering prayer as a feasible intervention for the psychological and spiritual adjustment of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer.
Survivorship care for patients with cancer requires a multidisciplinary effort and team approach. Enhanced knowledge of long-term complications of survivorship is needed for healthcare providers. Further research on evidence-based practice for cancer survivorship care also is necessary.
Nurses can review CSCPs with patients, instruct them when to seek treatment, promote recommended surveillance protocols, and encourage behaviors that lead to cancer prevention and promote well-being for cancer survivors.
This study highlights the anxiety that surrounds eating and the distress it causes to patients and their families. This strain can escalate into arguments over food, causing negative repercussions for patients and their family members.
This is the first study to uncover tensions about eating as experienced by patients with advanced cancer and cachexia and their families. Nurses must consider this issue when designing and delivering effective care for this patient population.
EOL care can be improved by working to decrease the highest-rated barriers and by continuing to support the highest-rated supportive behaviors.
Oncology nurses are dedicated, experienced, and comfortable handling most issues in EOL care. Recommendations to support oncology nurses include strategies to interact effectively with angry, anxious, or overly optimistic family members as well as involving social work and palliative care staff on the oncology interdisciplinary team. In addition, the information regarding identified obstacles and supportive behaviors in oncology EOL care can be used to facilitate discussion and change within oncology interdisciplinary teams and improve EOL care for patients with cancer and their families.
Fear of lymphedema and receipt of arm care advice motivated women's intention to avoid strenuous arm activity.
Information about lymphedema distributed to patients by healthcare professionals should be updated to reflect evidence and address the risk of developing lymphedema relevant to the patients' surgery.
The CSM is a useful framework for understanding the symptom beliefs of older breast cancer survivors.
Addressing women's beliefs and barriers may result in better communication with healthcare providers and more effective interventions for symptom management.
The allele frequencies of the Los Angeles and Duarte variant alleles in the Hungarian population correlate well with the allele frequencies in other healthy Caucasian populations.
Several immune-mechanisms have been discussed in the background of Whipple's disease, but their primary or secondary role is yet undetermined. First of all, this is a gastrointestinal disease; however, extraintestinal symptoms may be present many years before the final diagnosis. The histological hallmark for the diagnosis is the presence of numerous macrophages in the duodenal mucosa showing periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive inclusions, and the polymerase chain reaction. The choice of antibiotics and the length of the treatment is empiric, but in most cases there is an immediate response to therapy. Relapses are common, especially the involvements of central nervous system.
CT angiography is a fast, non-invasive method, and either in itself or combined with other ones it is suitable for a definitive diagnosis.
Our study demonstrated higher rate of complicated pregnancies in association with metabolic syndrome compared to the control group. In addition, we started a prospective study in 2007, using LMWH therapy to prevent thromboplastic and atherosclerotic effects of the metabolic syndrome. The study is planned to be reported in 2010 to assess the effect of LMWH therapy on the outcome of pregnancies.
We have to be aware for the development of the mycotic and related infections of endangered patients. Aspergillosis and candidiasis play the most significant role in the involvement of the central nervous system. Actinomycosis and nocardiosis are more sensitive to treatment, so their diagnosis is of life-saving importance. The therapeutic chances of high risk patients with aspergillosis and candidiasis will be definitively better, if the infection is recognized and appropriately treated before the involvement of the CNS.
Our results revealed the susceptibility nature of the examined IGR minor alleles in Hungarians, which nation differs historically from the surrounding Caucasian populations in origin of the founders of the state.
The authors can conclude that the botulinum toxin injection is effective and safe therapy, in the patients with cervical dystonia, blepharospasm, and hemifacial spasm.
Early induction of polyclonal B cell differentiation, coupled with follicular damage and germinal center loss soon after HIV-1 infection, may explain both the high rate of decline in HIV-1-induced antibody responses and the delay in plasma antibody responses to HIV-1. Please see later in the article for Editors' Summary.
These results demonstrate the feasibility of implementing Chagas disease diagnosis and treatment programs in resource-limited settings, including remote rural areas, while addressing the limitations associated with drug-related adverse events. The variability in apparent treatment effectiveness may reflect differences in patient and parasite populations, and illustrates the limitations of current treatments and measures of efficacy. New treatments with improved safety profiles, pediatric formulations of existing and new drugs, and a faster, reliable test of cure are all urgently needed.
These findings support the hypothesis that Leishmania amastigotes are pre-adapted for intracellular survival and undergo little dynamic modulation of gene expression at the RNA level. Species-specific parasite factors contributing to virulence and pathogenicity in the host may be limited to the products of a small number of differentially distributed genes or the differential regulation of conserved genes, either of which are subject to translational and/or post-translational controls.
These observations should caution researchers and those who work with synthetic peptides and their derivatives to be aware of the potential health concerns.
This is the first report dealing with the presence of a thermo sensitive channel (TRPM8) in human sperm. This channel could be involved in cell signaling events such as thermotaxis or chemotaxis.
This study demonstrated that DNA degradation affects a significant minority of saline mouthwashes, and that the phenomenon is partially subject-specific. Whilst the level of degradation did not significantly prevent successful amplification of short PCR fragments, previous studies suggest that such DNA degradation would compromise more demanding applications.
Our data depict a critical role of B/TSM in allergic airway inflammation via potentially novel mechanisms involving proinflammatory, Th2 cytokines and IgE/FcepsilonRI complex.
Based on the pattern of Arc activation seen in conditioning and control groups, we propose that a key requirement for CS-US convergence onto BLA neurons is the potentiation of US responding by prior exposure to a novel CS. Our results also support the view that contextual fear memories are encoded in the amygdala and that the role of dorsal hippocampus is to process and transmit contextual CS information.
NA-BMCs triggered endogenous hematopoiesis and induced faster recovery compared to bone marrow controls. These findings may be of relevance in the refinement of strategies in the treatment of hematological malignancies.
Newly identified hantaviruses harbored by shrews and moles support long-standing virus-host relationships and suggest that ancestral soricomorphs, rather than rodents, may have been the early or original mammalian hosts.
We found that p55 TNFR expression promotes atherosclerosis, among other mechanisms, by enhancing expression of endothelial adhesion molecules, while it seems to have no major role in the development of AngII-induced AAA.
Both the incidence risk and case fatality rates were found to be higher than previously reported. We detected clustering in four geographic regions, a shift from the prior geographic distributions, and developed maps identifying high-risk areas. These findings are useful for raising awareness among health care providers regarding areas at a high risk of infections and for guiding targeted multifaceted interventions by public health officials.
We describe miRNA expression changes that occur during trophectoderm specification and validate that our in vitro system faithfully recapitulates trophectoderm specification in vivo. By comparing our in vitro and in vivo datasets, we have identified a minimal set of candidate miRNAs likely to play a role in trophectoderm specification. These miRNAs are predicted to regulate a host of development-associated target genes, and many of these miRNAs have previously reported roles in development and differentiation. Additionally, we highlight a number of miRNAs whose tight developmental regulation may reflect a functional role in other stages of embryogenesis. Our embryo profiling data may be useful to investigators studying trophectoderm specification and other stages of preimplantation development.
Overall, breast cancer cell lines were genetically more complex than tumors, but retained expression patterns with relevance to the luminal-basal subtype distinction. The compendium of molecular profiles defines cell lines suitable for investigations of subtype-specific pathobiology, cancer stem cell biology, biomarkers and therapies, and provides a resource for discovery of new breast cancer genes.
This methodology provides an invaluable tool to knockdown developmental important genes in a tissue-specific manner or to establish animal models, in which the gene dosage is critically important in the pathogenesis of human disorders. The strategy should be also applicable to other model organisms.
This study demonstrates that IL-12 inhibits directly the growth of human lung adenocarcinoma and targets the adjacent NBEC. These novel anti-tumor activities of IL-12 add to the well known immune-modulatory properties of the cytokine and may provide a rational basis for the development of a clinical trial.
By taking up intact amino acids, Sarracenia purpurea can short-circuit the inorganic nitrogen cycle, thus minimizing potential bottlenecks in nitrogen availability that result from the plant's reliance for nitrogen mineralization on a seasonally reconstructed food web operating on infrequent and irregular prey capture.
To improve patient care, we suggest that all chest x rays should be reviewed at an early stage during a patient's hospital admission by a senior clinician and reported by a radiologist at the earliest opportunity. We also suggest that structured teaching on CXR interpretation should be made available for newly qualified doctors, especially with the introduction of shortened training.
Most of the clinical and laboratory features of patients with Chikungunya and Dengue fever are similar. Arthritis is the pathognomonic sign in patients with Chikungunya fever.
Antibiotic resistance was not demonstrated in this study. Adherence to guidelines for prescribing antibiotics in patients with features of group A beta-haemolytic streptococcal sore throat is poor. Information support may help to improve prescribing.
The results indicate that mouthguard retention is closely related to the accuracy of fit at the cervical undercut area rather than the outline location.
A relatively small cuspal deformation was observed in all models. There is an increased cusp-stabilizing effect of ceramic inlays compared to composite ones.
The novel dexamucobase was found to be equally effective in treating oral aphthous ulceration, with some advantages, as the widely used preparation Kenalog in Orabase.
Within the limitations of this study, the material combination of a precious gold alloy matrix and a titanium ball seems to be favorable for long-term retention.
Four-months' delay from grafting to implant insertion is a safe period to obtain a high survival rate and success rate for implants inserted in fresh-frozen bone.
Intraexaminer reliability was usually acceptable, although a clinically relevant difference between the 2 measurements of an examiner was occasionally observed. This uncertainty should be borne in mind in clinical routine and in studies reporting changes in color, eg, studies of tooth bleaching.
We developed a chemically defined system to generate unlimited numbers of DCs from hESCs. Our results demonstrate that hESC-derived DCs generated from this process are immunogenic and have the potential to be used for DC immunotherapy.
This study demonstrates the angiogenic potential of the combined delivery of BM-MSCs and fibrin, and highlights the advantage of stem cell-matrix approaches for myocardial repair.
The micropellet cultures at ambient or 15% oxygen concentration provided the most suitable environment for inducing chondrogenesis in ASCs. Furthermore, in light of the fact that the induction appeared in a zone-dependent manner, this format lends itself as a suitable model for further analysis of the relationship between chondrogenic differentiation and the gradient of nutrients.
Policy interventions, including increased translational government funding, a change in NHS and NICE organization and policies, and regulatory clarity, would likely improve the general outcomes for the regenerative medicine industry in the UK.
A tool to measure the control of allergic rhinitis and asthma was developed using a comprehensive set of methodological steps ensuring the design quality and the face and content validity. Additional validation studies to assess the psychometric properties of the questionnaire have started.
In this study, we show that the relative numbers of peripheral blood NK (CD56+CD3-) and NKT-like (CD56+CD3+) cells in COPD subjects are reduced and that their cytotoxic effector function is defective.
Stress is increased by poor function and mediated by internal and external buffers including health, the dyadic relationship, coping ability, and social support. More research using a dyadic research approach is needed to better understand stress within couples.
Caregivers receiving the TASK intervention improved in optimism, task difficulty, and threat appraisal. Further testing of an enhanced version of the TASK program is warranted, with attention directed toward more distal stroke caregiver outcomes.
This study informs professionals about the care and needs of stroke survivors and provides direction for education and supportive interactions with caregivers and survivors.
A structured adaptive physical activity produces improvements in balance, gait, fitness, and ambulatory performance but not in falls efficacy or free-living daily step activity. Randomized studies are needed to determine the cardiovascular health and functional benefits of structured group physical activity programs and to develop behavioral interventions that promote increased free-living physical activity patterns.
These findings highlight the important role that psychosocial factors play in chronic stroke survivors' HRQoL and have implications for stroke rehabilitation programs: rehabilitation that targets poststroke depression and psychosocial adjustment to stroke has the potential to improve HRQoL for chronic stroke survivors, independent of functional impairment.
The first patient entered the trial on September, 2008. Up to April 7, 2009, 810 patients had been included in 35 centers. The mean age was 69 (Standard deviation: 10), 18% had a baseline serum creatinine &gt;1.5 mg/dL, 57% were diabetics and 13% had a history of heart failure. The ongoing ACT Trial is the largest multicentre RCT that will determine whether acetylcysteine is effective in decreasing the risk of CIN in patients at risk undergoing angiography.
We aim to make our objectives and methods transparent. The results of this study may have important implications for both clinical trialists and users of the medical literature.
Attractive lower facial portions in Caucasians are different from those of Koreans. Therefore, clinicians in Korea should use these data as guidelines for evaluating and enhancing patients' frontal facial esthetics.
Mesiodistal and vertical crown position, as well as angulation of canines, differ significantly between subjects treated with straight-pull headgear or an activator.
The Tanaka-Johnston prediction method is not accurate when applied to a Turkish population. The new equations are reliable for predicting the width of unerupted canines and premolars in Turkish individuals.
The YEN angle was developed to assess more reliably the sagittal relationship between both jaws. Subjects with a YEN angle between 117 and 123 degrees have a skeletal Class I pattern. With an angle less than 117 degrees, patients are considered to have a skeletal Class II relationship, and with an angle greater than 123 degrees, patients have a skeletal Class III.
VAT-1 is overexpressed in glioblastomas and functionally involved in glioma cell migration, representing a new component involved in glioma invasion
Highly invasive tumours with a stem-like phenotype are more chemoresistant than angiogenic tumours derived from the same patients. We suggest that treatment resistance in glioblastomas can be related to PI3K/AKT activity in stem-like tumour cells, and that targeted interference with the PI3K/AKT pathway might differentiate and sensitize this subpopulation to chemotherapy.
This prospective study provides an objective tool for assessing severity levels for organ dysfunction and prediction of risk of mortality in severe falciparum malaria which can be used for treatment and research. It has been observed that no two patients of falciparum malaria are same in severity. The severity varies over time and malaria can affect single or multiple organs with different levels of severity which can be quantified as level I, II, and III. Neurologic and renal dysfunction were the most severe with level III severity, followed by haematologic, cardiovascular, and respiratory dysfunction with level-II severity, as well as hepatic and metabolic dysfunction the least severe with level-I severity. Patient of malaria can be stratified as low, intermediate, and high risk depending on the MSS. With the help of MSS daily risk estimates and recovery time of OD can be determined.
We have developed a prototype neural network model to predict the psychosocial well-being in diabetes, when biological or biographical variables are given as inputs. When greater data was fed to the system, the normalized system error can be reduced.
High LDL level and greater carotid intima-media thickness are particularly important parameters that can predict if a patient of type 2 diabetes is at risk for silent ischaemia. A high carotid IMT is a surrogate and reliable marker of higher risk of CAD amongst type 2 diabetic patients, even in those without overt CAD. The study also underlines the utility of carotid IMT as a simple, non-invasive, safe, and cheap screening test for the assessment of risk of CAD in type 2 diabetics.
The modified PHQ-12 item is a valid and reliable instrument for large scale population based screening of depression in Asian Indians and a cut point score of greater than 4 gave the highest sensitivity and specificity.
Type 2 DM can be considered a risk factor for periodontitis. More studies are needed to confirm the harmful effects of type 1 DM on periodontal disease.
Twice daily toothbrushing contributes to better periodontal health in the elderly subjects and should be encouraged at every dental appointment.
It can be concluded that all the solutions are effective in toothbrush decontamination, but 3% neem has greater efficacy than other solutions.
It can be concluded that the frequent topical application of fluoride could be a successful treatment for incipient root carious lesions, irrespective of the type of fluoride treatment used.
The results support the view that self-confidence is related with oral health status, and individuals with impaired oral and gingival health have a low self-confidence level.
Of the investigated elderly individuals 45.6% reported oral impact on daily performances. Those who presented altered oral mucosa and had a lower performance in the WHOQOL-BREF social domain were more likely to report such an impact.
This study underlines the need for integration of pre-adolescent self-efficacy and maternal cognition and behaviour into oral health intervention programmes because of their relation to recommended toothbrushing behaviour among pre-adolescents, regardless of cultural differences. These findings seem to fit with the Social Cognitive Theory, which emphasises the significance of cultural factors and cognition as the determinants of behaviour.
Perceived need for dental care is affected by parameters other than demographic and socioeconomic status (i.e. parameters that are associated with the presence of symptoms and/or impacts on everyday life). Therefore, functional and psychological impacts of the disease seem to be as important, if not more, as the clinical indicators while estimating the dental needs.
The results suggested that self-liking, self-competence and body investment subscales might be the psychosocial risk markers that influence self-reported oral health status and behaviour.
The impact of TOE in CABG procedures, while significantly less than that in non-CABG surgical procedures, remains substantial.
Sevoflurane induces elevation of the serum liver enzymes in morbidly obese patients with variable onsets.
This survey shows that CPNBH results in low pain scores and a low incidence of side effects. Many patients commented positively on their overall impression of their anesthesia care, particularly the level of attention that they received. This highlights the low incidence of those complications and neural injury.
Overall, this strategy reduced measurable blood losses from phlebotomy. In larger trials it might also preserve hemoglobin levels.
Intravenous dexmedetomidine administration prolonged the sensory and motor blocks of bupivacaine spinal analgesia with good sedation effect and hemodynamic stability.
The data propose that both clonidine and gabapentin have effective role in blunting hyperdynamic responses after laryngoscopy, more so with gabapentin.
Cancer pain in pediatric age group can be well managed in accordance with the WHO Analgesic Ladder. Aggressive symptoms and control of treatment of related side effect are also needed to ensure successful implementation and the WHO Analgesic Ladder.
We conclude that prophylactic rectal acetaminophen is effective in reducing pain after adenotonsillectomy and postoperative analgesic requirement.
Late pregnancy is not associated with increased sensitivity to local anesthetics (EMLA) applied to the skin, under our study conditions.
Though the number of patients is small in this study (n = 15), it nevertheless brings to light the advantages of TIVA during the robotic laparoscopic radical cystectomy (RLRC), by shortening the duration of PP without an increase in prothrombin and fibrinogen concentrations. A lager number of clinical trial are needed to further clarify this issue.
The NTG adding to lidocaine in intravenous regional anesthesia shortens onset times of sensory and motor block and decreases the tourniquet and postoperative pain, without any side effect.
The use of pump injection for forearm IVRA could significantly decrease the maximum venous pressure, and decrease the incidence and the magnitude of lidocaine leak past the tourniquet.
Remifentanil provided better intraoperative analgesia than isoflurane in infants undergoing pyloromyotomy without increasing time to extubation.
Although the weight loss in the study group was moderate, it was significant over the control group whose members actually had an increase in average weight over the study period. Further research into pre-treatment correlates of attrition in this population is needed in order to eliminate health disparities among Native Hawaiians.
This study showed that VIMA technique with sevofluran in LC provides faster and more qualitative recovery of patients. Thus this technique should be applied in everyday anesthesiological procedures in LC, as well as in other minimally invasive videoendoscopic surgical procedures.
Breast reconstruction is an acceptable method in the treatment of breast cancer in patients in the need for or with already performed mastectomy. The choice of reconstruction approach depends on the breast volume, patient's wish and experience of surgical team. Our results suggest the advantage of breast reconstruction with LDF with implant, since the technique is safe, complications relatively rare and easily manageable, and the results are excellent or very good in each woman.
The response of patients with erosive OLP to a short course of systemic corticosteroids often was quite remarkable. However, symptoms and signs tended to recur after this treatment. Periodic examinations, patient education, medical treatment, monitoring of side-effects as well as follow-up biopsies are necessary for management of OLP patients.
Inspite the controversy about the prognostic relevance of VEGF our results as well as the results of previous studies, suggest that the expression of VEGF is not reliable as a clinical parameter for the prognosis and disease outcome but it is one of the important factors for the disease progression.
Saphenous stem diameter reduction at the level of ostium, proximally and distally of the confluence, confirms the significance of IPV ligature before pronounced varicosis appears.
Cardiovascular risk factors are present in the final-year students of the School of Medicine, University of Nis. It is necessary to insist on decreasing obesity prevalence, cigarette and alcohol consumption, and on increasing physical activity of students in order to prevent cardiovascular diseases.
Elevated Ox LDL, SOD and GSH-Px levels are associated with acute exercise in type 2 diabetic patients. We suggest that it could be a compensatory mechanism to preventing free radicals tissue damage. We hypothesize that a physical training program induces an enhance of muscular and liver antioxidant enzymes activity and reduces oxidative stress. Further studies are needed to explore the relationship between exercise and antioxidant system in diabetic patients with and without complications.
In the studied group of healthy men CRP per se is not an independent predictor of early arteriosclerosis, and may mediate the effect of certain traditional risk factors, especially visceral obesity, on promoting aterogenesis.
Belgrade belongs to a region with a low incidence rate of NPC. Further investigations are needed to explain higher frequency of undifferentiated carcinoma of nasopharyngeal type than squamous cell carcinoma.
Cardiocirculatory disturbances led to fatal complications, the heart and brain infarction. We pointed out the heart as one of the most severely affected organs in diquat poisoning.
Treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid may be beneficial in patients with hepatic amyloidosis, and do extend indications for the use of ursodeoxycholic acid in amyloidotic cholestatic liver disease.
Ecstasy abuse might cause a complete loss of vision, thus medicametous and surgical treatment are abligatory.
Advanced Practice Nurses are critical for the future, provide cost-effective care and are highly regarded by patients/clients. They will be a constant and permanent feature of future health care provision. However, clarification regarding their classification and regulation is necessary in some countries.
This is the first national survey to report preference for CE and access to technology of NPs in Australia. Electronic technology can provide programmed support such as online learning and resources through computers and PDAs to maximise NP prescribing potential.
A significant capacity for critical thinking and clinical decision making were the hallmarks of the performance of the two AHCSs; their style of practice was collaborative, flexible and autonomous. While their formal role were as CNCs the two participants operationalised their roles/responsibilities as would a Nurse Practitioner. Their practice demonstrated a new competency: "the pro-active identification of at risk patients".
The effectiveness of a continuous femoral block depends on neurostimulation characteristics, which likely correspond to various possible catheter tip positions. Conventional catheters provide no information on this issue. These results suggest that better VAS scores are attainable by placing catheters with neurostimulation guidance.
Our results support the hypothesis that moderate and high alcohol intake levels over the lifetime might increase cancer risk at several sites.
Stimulating popliteal catheters dramatically decrease the volume required to block the sciatic nerve in 50% of patients, compared with nonstimulating catheters.
This study presents a significantly high incidence of benign meningioma in the ME population in California. This may be due to higher susceptibility or exposure of this ethnic group to the risk factor(s) for this neoplasm. Considering the reported causal association of benign meningioma with childhood radiation exposure from Israel, exposure to this risk factor in this ethnic group needs to be evaluated in future studies.
The results indicate that the VDR poly-A polymorphism is significantly associated with breast cancer risk in north Indians especially with early onset disease. Although, ApaI and TaqI did not show any significant association with the disease when analyzed in isolation, but TaqI might modulate the risk associated with L alleles. Further, understanding the functional role of these variants residing on the VDR haplotype associated with disease susceptibility may suggest novel approaches for breast cancer prevention and therapy.
The present study using MRI showed dynamical movement of the spinal cord and cauda equina due to changing position. The most obvious movements by changing from supine to lateral decubitus position and fully flexed legs were observed at the L2/3 and L1/2 levels, respectively.
The strongest result obtained by this study was for an additive effect between smoking status, slow NAT2 variants, MTR 2756*G and MTHFR 677*T alleles, in affecting bladder cancer risk.
Under the conditions of this study model, anesthetists were unable to correctly identify intraneural injection by syringe feel during simulated regional anesthesia.
Intra-pulmonary injection of 3,4-benzopyrene can steady induce lung carcinoma in rats, and green tea has preventive effect against lung cancer possibly by regulating expression of some critical genes such as p53 and bcl-2.
The ADHD Rating Scale (Arabic version), in terms of either the grand total score or the total score of each of its two subscales, demonstrated concurrent and discriminant validity by discriminating children with ADHD from other clinical and non-clinical children groups. The study obtained cutoff points for both sexes based only on the grand total score of the scale because of the relatively small sample size. Replication of the study, utilizing a larger sample and eliciting ratings from both parents and teachers, is recommended.
EIB is prevalent among amateur teenage football players in Tunisia. The prevalence differs between regions and seems to be dependent on air humidity levels.
An incidence of 4.1% for male breast cancer indicates that this disease is not as uncommon as presumed in this part of the world. Breast cancer in men seems more frequently to be hormone receptor positive and the BRCA2 mutation confers a significant risk to men.
The Arabic translation of EQ-5D appears to be valid and reliable in measuring quality of life in Jordanian people.
FSD is prevalent in Jordan. Its social aspects are understudied and need more research in the future.
The MRM BI-RADS lexicon using the Fischer scoring system is useful and has a high predictive value, especially for malignant breast lesions, and is easy to apply. Overlapping features between benign inflammatory and malignant lesions might yield a reduced accuracy in inflammatory pathologies.
Current study findings for BMI as well as skin fold thicknesses suggest an increased trend toward adiposity among Bahraini adolescents, especially in girls, which puts this age group at a high risk of adult obesity and its consequences. A need for urgent intervention programs is emphasized.
Psychological symptoms and disorders are prevalent in secondary school girls and health professionals need to be able to recognize, manage and follow-up mental health problems in young people. Further research is needed to explore the magnitude of the problem at the national level.
Although no strict clinical criteria exist to differentiate a melanoma metastasis to the breast from a primary breast carcinoma atypically rapid growth, normal Ca 15-3 level, and a history of prior melanoma may be helpful. However, it may be still misdiagnosed in some cases even histopathologically if the immunohistochemical staining is not performed.
Manuscript review, like clinical medicine and (ironically) like science itself, is not and cannot be a 'scientific' process, and this needs to be taken into account both by those carrying out reviews and those who wish to evaluate and improve the manuscript review process.
Substance misuse should always be assessed in this patient group, bearing in mind the potential interactive causes of psychopathology. Intervention is of value in improving outcomes.
The CFIP used a family-focused, child-sensitive approach in which two clinicians met together with families where there was parental mental illness. Adults and children were seen together and separately. Work with parents was aimed at validating their concerns for the child, and enhancing their confidence as parents/carers. Children had the opportunity to express their concerns in a safe and protective environment and, where appropriate, were supported in their concerns if these were being put to the adult family members. The project was seen to add value to the service provision of the community mental health team, and demonstrated to clinical staff the benefits of an inclusive and whole of family approach to mental health care.
Increased healthcare resource utilization and costs results from relapse in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. An increase in service use and costs persist for a considerable time period after an episode of relapse.
Findings of this study suggest that mental health law reform introducing considerations of competence could lead to a substantially different group of people being subject to CTOs. If the CTO is carefully targeted and not used excessively, it is likely to be accorded qualified acceptance for most service users for whom it is used.
This inpatient unit generally functions as a short stay unit and as a result it is difficult to draw any meaningful conclusions as to what sort of patient would benefit most from an admission to the unit.
This pilot study suggests that it is feasible to interview children regarding their perspectives on attending a CAMHS. Children's views of CAMHS are required to help inform developmentally appropriate service delivery.
Patients with schizophrenia on antipsychotics have an alarmingly low rate of monitoring of these common adverse effects and comorbidities. Clinicians need to be aware of this, so that they can improve their practice.
Education can be an effective strategy to influence prescribing behaviour of doctors. It is likely that this effect can be augmented by adoption of more stringent regulatory requirements.
Twenty-one students attended the inaugural Institute. Twenty-seven speakers contributed to the morning seminars and there were 17 clinical elective site visits. Feedback from students was positive and the week was rated highly, both in terms of its organization and from an academic perspective. It is planned to run the Institute annually and, in time, it is hoped that it will increase the numbers of students who choose psychiatry as a career option.
Among medical students, psychiatry is perceived as unattractive and fails to command the respect afforded other specialties. The viewing of a promotional DVD by medical students was found to be effective in improving their attitudes towards psychiatry and increasing their interest in pursuing a career in the specialty. However, the long-term impact of this modest improvement is unknown and the low survey response rate limits the extent to which the results can be generalized.
Freud, despite a deliberate attempt to play down his Jewish origins to deflect anti-Semitic attacks, is the most representative Jew of his time and his thinking and work represents the finest manifestation of the Litvak mentality.
SNEP performed well regardless of the genome size and showed a better performance for nucleotide polymorphism detection, when compared with other previously proposed methods. The R-software 'SNEP' is available at http://www.ism.ac.jp/~fujisawa/SNEP/.
This novel finding that particular endosymbionts can influence host dispersal is of broad importance given the extremely widespread occurrence of similar bacteria within arthropod communities. A bacterial phenotype that limits dispersal has the potential not only to reduce gene flow and thus contribute to degrees of reproductive isolation within species, but also to influence species distribution and thus overall community composition.
MAP CRCs show some similarities to micro-satellite unstable cancers, with a preferential proximal location, a high rate of mucinous histotype and increased presence of TILs. These features should direct the practicing pathologist towards a MAP aetiology of CRC as an alternative for a mismatch repair deficient cause. High frequent G&gt;T transversions in APC and KRAS2 (mutated in early tumour development) but not in P53 and SMAD4 (implicated in tumour progression) might indicate a predominant MUTYH effect in early carcinogenesis.
Our comparative analysis provides further evidence for similarities and differences between three hESC lines in self-renewal, and spontaneous and directed differentiation. These differences may be associated with inherited variation in the sex, stage, quality and genetic background of embryos used for hESC line derivation, and/or changes acquired during passaging in culture.
We have established three human insulin-releasing cell lines which maintain antigenic characteristics and insulin secretion profiles of the original tumors. These cell lines represent valuable tools for the study of molecular events underlying beta cell function and dysfunction.
Supporting individuals to take control of their self-care requires advice-giving within a supportive treatment context and practitioner relationship, with clients who are open to change and committed to maintaining their health. CAM modalities may have an important role to play in this endeavour.
Our analyses estimated the traditional parameters of carrying capacities and return rates, but these are now seen as varying continuously over the landscape depending on habitat quality and the mechanisms of density dependence. The importance of our results lies in our demonstration that the effects of spatial and temporal heterogeneity must be accounted for if we are to have accurate predictive models for use in management and conservation. This is an area which until now has lacked an adequate theoretical framework and methodology.
Haplotype networks indicate that red JF is the primary contributor of diversity at chicken IL-4Ralpha: the signature of variation observed here may be due to the effects of domestication, admixture and introgression, which produce high diversity. However, this gene is a key cytokine-binding receptor in the immune system, so balancing selection related to the host response to pathogens cannot be excluded.
YidC is distributed in bacteria and some Euryarchaeota. Although mitochondrial Oxa and chloroplastic Alb3 are derived from the prokaryotic YidC, their origin might be not related to the endosymbiosis events of the two organelles. In some eukaryotic lineages, especially in protists, Oxa and Alb3 have diverse evolutionary histories. Finally, a model for the evolutionary history of the entire YidC/Oxa/Alb3 family in the three domains of life is proposed.
Cell cycle exit of the growth factor-deprived T lymphocytes is characterised by a signature of differentially expressed genes. A coordinate repression of a set of genes known to be induced during T cell activation is observed. However, growth arrest following exit from the cell cycle is actively controlled by several up-regulated genes that enforce the non-dividing state. The identification of genes involved in cell cycle exit and quiescence provides new hints for further studies on the molecular mechanisms regulating the non-dividing state of a cell, the mechanisms closely related to cancer development and to many biological processes.
Our data reveal that host cell infection by Plasmodium sporozoites leads to a coordinated and sequential set of biological events, ranging from the initial stage of stress response up to the engagement of host metabolic processes and the maintenance of cell viability throughout infection.
We obtained clusters of co-expressed genes that over-represented biological processes and molecular pathways related to hepatotoxicity in the rat. The mechanisms involved in the response of the liver to the exposure to 1,4-dichlorobenzene suggest non-genotoxicity whereas the exposure to the hepatotoxicants could be DNA damaging leading to overall genomic instability and activation of cell cycle check point signaling. In addition, key pathways and biological processes representative of an inflammatory response, energy production and apoptosis were impacted by the hepatotoxicant exposures that manifested liver injury in the rat.
We demonstrated that heterologous EST mapping may be efficiently used to reveal genes involved in host defense responses to pathogens. Upregulated genes identified in this study substantially overlap with those previously obtained by microarrays.
Neuronal loss in subcortical regions is associated with functional disability in the older population. The causal relationships are not defined and require further investigation.
The UK Quality and Outcomes Framework currently assesses the quantity, but not the quality of spirometry.
The presence of TM is not uncommon amongst Egyptian individuals. We recommend further qualitative studies investigating aspects of TM involving a larger sample size distinguished by different types of illnesses and socio-economic variables, as well as those who have and have not participated in clinical research.
We conclude that the CNV in intron 1 in BMPR2 is unlikely to play a role in the pathogenesis of either familial or sporadic PAH.
These results imply the involvement of inherited factors, which modulate the susceptibility of haplogroup J1 to T2DM.
Zur as a repressor directly controls the transcription of znuA, znuCB and ykgM-RpmJ2 in Y. pestis by employing a conserved mechanism of Zur-promoter DNA association as observed in gamma-Proteobacteria. Zur contributes to zinc homeostasis in Y. pestis likely through transcriptional repression of the high-affinity zinc uptake system ZnuACB and two alternative ribosomal proteins YkgM and RpmJ2.
We have validated endogenous control genes for qRT-PCR analysis of gene expression in in-vitro and in-vivo cerebral ischaemia models. For normalization purposes, Rpl13a and Sdha are found to be the most suitable genes for the in-vitro model and Sdha and Ywhaz for the in-vivo model. Genes previously used as housekeeping genes for the in-vivo model in the literature were not validated as good control genes in the present study, showing the need for careful evaluation for each new experimental setup.
These results demonstrate that the combination treatment of ALF and RIS at their sub-therapeutic doses can improve the mechanical properties of the spine as well as the femur and ameliorate changes in Ca metabolism in an animal model of osteoporosis, suggesting that the combination treatment of ALF and RIS has a therapeutic advantage over each monotherapy for the treatment of osteoporosis.
General practitioners are the central health professionals in the delivery of palliative care for older people. They should however be encouraged to involve specialized services such as palliative care teams where necessary. With the German health care reform of 2007, a legal framework has been created that allows for this. As far as its realization is concerned, it must be ensured that the spotlight remains on the needs of the patients and not on policy conflicts and rivalries between health care professionals. Older people might particularly benefit if "talking" medicine and time-consuming care were properly catered for, financially and organizationally, in the health care system.
External in-migrants have a higher risk of dying, especially from HIV related causes, than residents, and in areas with substantial migration this needs to be taken into account in evaluating mortality statistics and planning health care services.
Participants with the poorest physical health benefited most from the programme and gender differences in improvement were observed. Physical health of unemployed persons with health complaints improved after participation in this health promotion programme, but not sufficiently, considering their poor physical health at baseline.
Based upon these localization and inhibitor studies, we conclude that Kinesin-5-like motors in brown algae are more similar to the motors of animals than those of plants or protists. However, Kinesin-5-like proteins in S. compressa serve novel roles in spindle formation and maintenance not observed in animals.
Our results confirmed the early hypothesis that the transcript variants of MTUS1 gene are driven by multiple gene promoters.
This study provides important information on the occurrence and distribution of three important intestinal parasites and indicates their diarrheogenic capacity in Kolkata and surrounding areas.
Cognitive behavioral therapy and physical exercise are potentially useful treatments among women with breast cancer undergoing treatment-induced, premature menopause. For these patients, hormonal and non-hormonal therapies are contraindicated or have a range of bothersome side-effects. Hence, research into these interventions is needed, before dissemination and implementation in the current health care system can take place.
No evidence was found that the intervention was effective in delaying heterosexual experience or reducing pregnancies, drunkenness, or cannabis use. Some results suggested an adverse effect. Although methodological limitations may at least partly explain these findings, any further implementation of such interventions in the UK should be only within randomised trials.
The QRISK cardiovascular disease risk equation offers an improvement over the long established Anderson Framingham equation in terms of identifying a high risk population for cardiovascular disease in the United Kingdom. QRISK underestimates 10 year cardiovascular disease risk, but the magnitude of underprediction is smaller than the overprediction with Anderson Framingham.
The results of this study indicated that strabismus surgery for restrictive thyroid ophthalmopathy using standard technique and table amounts of surgery can provide excellent results and patient satisfaction.
A tongue of Tenon's capsule, attached at the original site of a lost extraocular rectus muscle in a young adult, works as a pseudo-tendon successfully restoring function in the direction of action of that muscle.
Late extrusion of a non-absorbable suture used in a superior oblique tuck may not result in loss of surgical effect. However, this finding does not imply the acceptability of using an absorbable, instead of a non-absorbable, suture in this procedure.
The results from the present study demonstrate that a majority of available anti-human JAM-C antibodies cross-react with phosphorylated K8 and suggest that cellular localization studies using these reagents should be interpreted with caution. Of the JAM-C antibodies tested, only mAb PACA4 is monospecific for human JAM-C. Analyses using PACA4 reveal that JAM-C expression is variable in different epithelial cell lines with co-localization at TJs.
The present paper highlights that staurosporine engages the intrinsic mitochondrial apoptotic pathway via caspase-8 or caspase-9 signalling cascades and via caspase-independent cell death, as well as through p53 activity.
Taken together these results suggest that InsP3R1 forms a complex with AKAP450 and PKAIIbeta, localized in the Golgi apparatus of cerebellar granule cells. In contrast, the association of InsP3R1 with PKA in Purkinje cells would require a different macromolecular complex.
Progesterone treatment induces changes to the cell surface as a result of nanoscale molecular modifications in response to external hormonal treatments. AFM provides the basis for the identification, visualization and quantification of these cell surface nanoscale changes. Together these findings demonstrate the utility of AFM for use in reproductive science and cancer biology where it could be applied in both in vitro analysis of protein structure-function relationships and clinical diagnosis.
The findings from the present study suggest that month of birth may be related to both season of birth and age-position effects. These effects may be compounded, particularly in the early years of primary school, when summer born children are youngest in their year, as in England. In Northern Ireland, age-position effects are also evident in secondary school public examination results, which may have implications for long-term life choices.
The negative Flynn-effect found on Volume &amp; Heaviness for Y7 pupils is paralleled by a similar negative effect on attainment of formal operations by Y8 and Y9, compared with 1976. Yet at the same time the proportion of pupils using the top level of concrete operational thinking has increased on both tests. It seems that there has been a change either in general societal pressures on the individual or in the style of teaching in schools - or both - favouring a lower level of processing of reality.
Differences in conceptions can be perceived between students who enter a new learning programme (i.e. higher education) and students who already have one year of experience in higher education. Among students with more than one year of educational experience, differences disappear. Furthermore, this study shows that the learning environment can make a difference with respect to students' conceptions of constructivist learning activities.
These results confirm that exam-related coping varies as a function of students' beliefs about the nature of academic ability and their perceptions of control when approaching examinations.
The findings of the study support the assumption that students can regulate emotions collaboratively as well as individually. The study contributes to our understanding of the social aspects of emotional regulation in collaborative learning contexts.
The results of this study indicate that a dialogic approach to citizenship education as an integral part of history classes helps students to form a more profound opinion about moral issues in the subject matter. In addition, group work seems to be a more effective method to implement dialogue in the classroom than whole-class teaching.
The findings indicate that perceived parental socialization practices are only moderately associated with school adjustment among upper secondary school students. This probably reflects the fact that the influence of specific parenting practices declines as children and young adolescents mature into late adolescent students.
An iterative sequencing of lessons seems to facilitate learning and transfer, particularly of mathematical procedures. The findings support an iterative perspective for the development of knowledge of concepts and procedures.
Consistent with earlier research based on comparisons across universities, the SREQ is shown to be almost completely unreliable in terms of benchmarking faculties or departments within a university.
Pain, function, and total Harris Hip scores were all improved by the 2 year mark and better than the total hip group. Overall incision lengths decreased over the study time period. The average age of the BHR recipient was 51 years, approximately 14 years less than the total hip mean age. Pain in the Birmingham group improved by 32 points at the 3 month mark. By the end of 2 years, the Birmingham group Harris Hip score mean was nearly perfect at 98.5 points. Rare incidence of complications, marked decreased pain scores and marked elevation in function were results found in this sample of Birmingham resurfacing.
The results of this study suggest that patients treated with hip resurfacing arthroplasty have a significantly higher postoperative activity level, as compared to those treated with conventional THA, when controlled for preoperative factors.
While there is still much debate and room for additional research on this topic, multiple midterm clinical results suggest that resurfacing hip arthroplasty represents a safe, effective alternative to conventional total hip arthroplasty, especially for younger, active patients.
Meticulous femoral head preparation was helpful in providing durable cement fixation and is essential in cases with poor bone quality.
Small, corticated, non-progressive erosions can occur from femoroacetabular impingement following HRA. The erosions were more commonly posterior in this series, and they tended to occur in active patients. There is no adverse effect on clinical outcomes, and more specifically, there is no association of PFAI with pain.
Arthritis, and most probably osteoarthritis, may not be associated with most CHD risk factors or 8-year incident CHD in elderly Japanese-American males.
The diagnostic yield of graded exercise testing in patients with suspected SVT is limited, even among those with exercise related symptoms.
The data showed that the metabolic syndrome is independently associated with increased aortic PP and ascending AP in patients with normal coronary arteries, suggesting aortic stiffness as one of the possible mechanisms underlying the excess cardiovascular risk associated with the metabolic syndrome.
alpha(1A)-AR expression decreased gradually with age, and alpha(1D)-AR expression was repressed in middle age and presenescence, while the expression of alpha(1B)-AR remained unchanged during senescence. AT(1)R expression was unaffected by aging from young adulthood to presenescence, but exhibited a remarkable upregulation in senescence. There were no significant discrepancies of cardiac AT(2)R expression among the four age groups, but both messenger RNA and protein had a tendency to upregulate during aging. The results suggest that there are considerable changes of expression of cardiac alpha(1)-AR and ATR subtypes during growth and development. The change of cardiac alpha(1)-AR and ATR expression during aging is a protective response to senescence by keeping normal myocardial contractility, while the upregulation of AT(1)R and AT(2)R promotes age-related myocardium hypertrophy and cardiac remodelling.
Bivalirudin can be used to effectively achieve a unified anticoagulation protocol for simultaneous integrated revascularization.
Although small, the present study suggests that defects seen on PET myocardial perfusion, resulting from stressors (treadmill exercise and dobutamine) that increase myocardial oxygen demand, may have prognostic value.
CCSA classes I to III were inversely related to DASI scores and linearly associated with mortality. The similarity in outcomes among class III and IV patients is probably explained by the confounding effect of the stability of the patients' symptoms. The higher mortality risk among class III and IV patients with an unstable course provides impetus for a revised CCSA definition incorporating this information.
The results suggest that the cardiac MRI data in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) do not substantively change when missing data are handled using multiple imputation. Future analyses of cardiac MRI data may consider the complete case approach to be adequate despite the high rate of missing data in this population.
A 12-week ramipril treatment protocol for healthy middle-aged volunteers did not lower CRP levels compared with placebo. However, because of the inherent variability of CRP levels, a much larger study is required to exclude a small treatment effect.
Celacade reduces the increase of transforming growth factor beta-1 expression during the acute stage of MI in rats, but does not prevent chronic cardiac dilation. Celacade restores the positive inotropic effect of increased pacing rate in trabeculas from rat right ventricles with large MIs and reduces diastolic dysfunction.
Treatment with IL-15 has a positive effect on CVB3- induced murine myocarditis and seems to be a promising approach to modifying clinical course, hemodynamics and histopathology of virus-induced myocarditis. Further studies are needed to identify the underlying mechanisms.
The first nationwide registry of patients with ACS in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is presented. In contrast to registries from developed countries, our cohort is characterized by a younger age at presentation and a much higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus. Most patients with STEMIs did not receive fibrinolytic therapy within the time recommended in the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines. The results of the present pilot study show potential targets for improvement in care.
Removal of the fibrous band and the outer dural layer, at level of foramen magnum, together with the incision of inner dural layer appears to be good technique in adult CMI patients. The advantages are short operation time, no need for duraplasty, sufficient posterior fossa decompression, absence of CSF fistulas as a result of extra arachnoidal surgery, and short duration of hospitalization. Hence this surgical technique has advantages compared to other techniques.
Mortality rates from PF exhibit significant seasonal variation, with the highest rates occurring in the winter, even when recognized infection is excluded. Further studies are necessary to determine if this seasonal variation exists in a prospective cohort and, if so, to uncover its etiology.
Subanesthetic ketamine combined with a 35%-lower morphine dose provided equivalent pain control compared to the standard morphine dose alone, with fewer adverse side effects and a 45% reduction in morphine consumption.
Applying TBNA to EBUS-guided CDPs further increased the diagnostic yield of PPLs without additional risk. The diagnostic advantage of TBNA became more obvious if the EBUS probe was adjacent to the lesions.
PVH is highly associated with the MS. Our results suggest that the MS may predispose patients to develop pulmonary vascular disease.
Cigarette smoking in patients with asthma increases the number of airway AMs and attenuates their response to LPS, which may have implications in host immune function. Cigarette smoking does not alter the GC sensitivity of AMs in patients with asthma. There was differential cytokine sensitivity, with IL-8 being the least GC-sensitive cytokine. GC-insensitive IL-8 production from AMs may be a mechanism by which neutrophils are attracted into the airways.
These findings suggest there are rapid consequences of smoking cessation on inflammatory biomarkers in women at risk for CVD. Additional, larger studies including diverse smokers desiring to quit are required to confirm changes in "measurable milestones" that could serve as motivating factors to assist smokers to quit.
The magnitude of adenotonsillar hypertrophy required for any given magnitude of OAHI is more likely to be smaller in obese children compared to nonobese children. Increased Mallampati scores in obese children suggest that soft-tissue changes and potentially fat deposition in the upper airway may play a significant role in the global differences in tonsillar and adenoidal size among obese and nonobese children with OSA.
We demonstrated that isocyanate-induced asthmatic reactions are associated with a consistent delayed increase in FeNO but not with the acidification of EBC.
IPF patients with emphysema exhibited higher mortality compared with those with IPF without emphysema. This dire prognosis seems to be at least partially associated with the development of severe pulmonary arterial hypertension.
S-PCT has higher diagnostic accuracy than PF-PCT in differentiating PPPEs from non-PPPEs. However, both PF-PCT and S-PCT are useful in the severity assessment of patients with PPPEs. The PF-PCT/S-PCT ratio may help to predict prolonged chest tube drainage.
LABA therapy does not appear to have any clinically important antiinflammatory or proinflammatory effect. LABA therapy decreases BAL fluid albumin levels, suggesting a possible modulating effect on microvascular leakage.
In this population-based study, low FEV(1) was associated with high SBPV in the HF domain. It is suggested that high beat-to-beat variability in BP could contribute to the increased cardiovascular risk in subjects with moderately reduced FEV(1).
The germinal centers score was the best discriminative between CVD-UIP and IPF/UIP patients; it was of marginal prognostic significance. Age, TLC, and HC score were independent prognostic factors in all patients with UIP histology.
More physically active COPD patients show better functional status in terms of Dlco, Pemax, 6MWD, Vo(2)peak, and systemic inflammation.
While there have been significant reductions in hospitalizations and hospital mortality for AIDS-associated PCP over the last 20 years, these reductions have not been homogenous across demographic subpopulations and geographic regions and point to new at-risk populations. Furthermore, mortality in severe cases of PCP that require mechanical ventilation has improved substantially.
Roughly half of the patients presumed to have PAH based on PCWP may be found to have PVH based on LVEDP. Reliance on PCWP may result in the dangerous or cost-ineffective use of pulmonary vasodilators for patients with left-heart disease. Furthermore, without assessing LVEDP, investigators may include patients with left-heart disease in therapeutic trials of PAH drugs, thereby limiting their ability to detect beneficial drug effects.
Appropriate use of nCPAP in patients with OSA may be required to decrease elevated CRP levels, with possible implications for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
Higher postoperative soluble P-selectin levels were associated with an increased risk of PGD at 72 h following lung transplantation.
Doubt about physicians' ability to predict medical futility is common among surrogate decision makers. The nature of the doubt may have implications for responding to conflicts about futility in clinical practice.
Even a costly intervention to improve adherence with low-tidal volume ventilation in patients with ALI reduces death and is cost-effective by current societal standards.
We demonstrated that a shortened AMP challenge that can be applied to young children is comparable to the standard AMP challenge and is highly repeatable. Further studies in young children to assess the clinical role of a shortened AMP challenge using FOT are required.
Both early and late fluid management of septic shock complicated by ALI can influence patient outcomes.
Blood tests identified significantly more patients as being infected with MTB than TST, although diagnostic agreement varied across groups. Based on these results, we recommend tailoring application of the new blood IFN-gamma assays for LTBI in different high-risk groups and advise caution in their current use in immunosuppressed patients.
Regardless of WHO type and/or tumor stage, although p53 expression may predict recurrence in thymomas, p53 and Src coexpression can predict shorter OS, and cytoplasmic localization of survivin may predict recurrence in thymic carcinoma. These findings make thymic tumors a prime target for newly developed anti-Src and anti-survivin therapies.
These data suggest that early intervention to prevent bile acid aspiration may reduce the intensity of neutrophilic inflammation in intubated and mechanically ventilated patients in the ICU.
Sleep apnea may severely threaten work ability years before diagnosis. These results emphasize the importance of the early identification and treatment of employees with sleep apnea.
The proportion of individuals with airflow limitation and self-reported exacerbation increases as the disease severity progresses. Dyspnea, prior asthma diagnosis, receiving any respiratory therapy, and more severe obstruction were significantly associated with having an exacerbation in the past year.
APACHE IV and MPM(0) III were more accurate than SAPS II for the prediction of ICU LOS. APACHE IV is the most accurate and best calibrated model. Although it is less accurate, MPM(0) III may be a reasonable option if the data collection burden or the treatment effect bias is a consideration.
Nonetheless, the limited number of studies, the disparity in patient populations, and the variability in NMES methodology prohibit the use of metaanalysis. Yet, from the viewpoint of a systematic review, NMES looks promising as a means of rehabilitating patients with CHF and COPD. There is at least sufficient evidence to warrant more large prospective, randomized, controlled trials.
In persons with MetS, a reduced FVC is associated with further increases in mortality, suggesting that the evaluation of lung function may be useful for risk stratification in those with MetS.
A large proportion of children and an even higher proportion of teens continued wearing their lenses 3 months after completing the CLIP Study. Children and teens reported similar contact lens comfort and low frequencies of most symptoms, though teens experienced more dry-eye symptoms. Overall, reports of symptoms in this sample were lower than had been reported in adult populations by other investigators.
The use of a semi-limbal diameter lens can be an effective modality in patients with intolerance to other lens designs. However, lens modification from the standard design and the use of ocula lubricants are often required to optimise lens fit and to enhance tolerance.
Both MPS B and MPS D can cause large decreases in the viability of cultured corneal epithelial cells even with just a 2h exposure at multiple doses. Significant reduction in cell viability is evident at brief 15-30 min exposures. In contrast, MPS A and MPS C have significantly less effect on the cell viability of corneal epithelial cells at multiple doses, after these short exposure times.
In the experimental setting, inhalational anaesthetics have protective effects against ischaemia-reperfusion injury. Initial perioperative data suggest that these effects may also result into clinically relevant improved organ function. However, further research will be needed to reveal whether these organ-protective properties will ultimately translate into an improved short-term and long-term postoperative outcome.
The availability of oxycodone preparations has increased its clinical use exponentially during the last decade. Further clinical studies are still needed to fully understand its clinical pharmacology. Oxycodone is still a new 'old' drug whose pharmacology and clinical potential is not yet fully understood.
In a multicenter phase-2 randomized controlled study in the European Union, the efficacy and safety of gantacurium were evaluated, but results have not yet been published. Sugammadex is currently available in the European Union, but the United States Food and Drug Administration has had concerns about its safety (hypersensitivity and allergic reactions) and has asked for additional safety data. It is hoped that the widespread use of sugammadex in the European Union will provide additional information.
Progress was made by improving population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models, developing new indexes to measure drug effect and using them in an adaptive delivery system to the individual patient.
Knowledge of genetic factors that affect opioid efficacy, metabolism, and side effects have the potential for personalizing both acute and chronic pain management, and for designing more effective opiate pain medications with lower side effect profiles.
Complications of anesthesia outside the operating room still persist even in American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) status I patients and in accredited facilities with board-certified physicians. The department of anesthesiology taking care of the in-hospital office-based facility has the responsibility to define safe practice standards according to the ASA guidelines regarding education, documentation, guidelines preparation, equipment, standards monitoring, collaboration with other facilities, backup for the personnel in case of emergencies and prolongation of observation of a complicated patient in the postanesthesia care unit. Office-based facilities outside the hospital should comply with all federal, state, local laws and regulations. Such precautions will enhance safety, efficiency and reliability of office-based anesthesia inside and outside the hospital.
New practice advisories and proposals for indications to treat and prevent low-output syndrome in patients at risk are warranted for patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Levosimendan should also be considered as an adjunct drug for the treatment of cardiogenic shock. Further experience and controlled studies are needed to support the use of levosimendan for other perturbations in critical care and perioperative medicine.
This review will focus on anesthesiological management of patients undergoing implantation of pacemakers and defibrillators, coronary interventions and interventions in the rapidly growing field of percutaneous treatment of mitral and aortic valve failure.
Data from the American Society of Anesthesiologists, Closed Claims database suggest that anesthesia at remote locations poses a significant risk for the patient, particularly related to oversedation and inadequate oxygenation/ventilation during monitored anesthesia care. Similar anesthesia and monitoring standards and guidelines should be used in all anesthesia care areas.
Propofol use by gastroenterologists may be well tolerated if appropriate patient selection, staff training, monitoring and low-dose sedation protocols are applied.
PDNV is an under-recognized problem after outpatient anesthesia. Valid data for the incidence and the best treatment of PDNV after office-based anesthesia are rare. For safety, quality, and patient satisfaction, further research is needed to develop a prediction model to better identify patients at risk for PDNV in order to direct antiemetic prophylaxis for ambulatory patients undergoing office-based anesthesia.
The latest publications continue to document a relatively low risk to pediatric sedation yet also warn us about the potential adverse events in this field. The results help to define competencies required to deliver pediatric sedation and make this practice even safer. Particularly interesting are new jargon and methodologies for defining adverse events and the use of new methods for training sedation providers.
Both mouse and human studies have demonstrated the antioxidative and atheroprotective effects of PON1. The mechanisms by which PON2 exerts its atheroprotective effects are emerging. Large-scale epidemiologic studies are needed to further examine the relationship between PON2 genetic polymorphisms and risk for CVD. Elucidation of the physiologic substrates of the PON proteins is of particular importance to further advance this field.
Comparing markers such as non-HDL-C and apoB for the accuracy with which they identify risk during a trial is essential but not sufficient. It is also necessary to compare markers for how well they identify residual risk, and, in this regard, apoB clearly outperforms non-HDL-C.
Inherited lipodystrophies are an important cause for monogenic hypertriglyceridemia and serve to highlight the role of adipocytes in maintaining normolipidemia.
Multiple complex strategies will need to be utilized in these patients to treat the different features seen in lipodystrophy in order to reduce their long-term cardiovascular risk. Further research is also needed to evaluate combination therapies and to identify the underlying mechanisms in order to develop novel therapies for the future.
Whether nicotinic acid use becomes routine in the treatment of atherosclerosis is likely to be determined by the results of two ongoing clinical outcome trials. In addition, further research is required to explore the 'pleiotropic' effects of nicotinic acid and will ultimately provide a platform for the development of newer molecules that are potentially beneficial but without the well known side-effects.
During recent years, our understanding of the character and biological significance of the dyslipidemia of chronic kidney disease, and its link to cardiovascular disease, has increased. However, our knowledge about its proper management is still very limited.
Although recent studies have progressed our understanding of triglycerides and coronary heart disease, several outstanding uncertainties remain unresolved. Ongoing studies should help clarify these, including whether measurement of triglyceride levels can help improve coronary heart disease risk assessment, and study of genetic variants may help better understand any causal role.
Considering the hypolipidaemic effect in humans by PPARdelta agonists, long-term studies are needed to confirm efficacy and safety.
PON1 is a potentially antiatherogenic HDL-associated enzyme that protects LDL from oxidative modification. Enhancing PON1 activity could be an important target for future pharmacological agents aimed at decreasing cardiovascular risk.
These new insights will encourage early introduction of protective nutrition, exercise and drug therapies in Alstrm syndrome and suggest novel approaches to understanding diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidaemias and heart disease in the general population.
In animal, pathological and epidemiological studies, the increased levels of these two phospholipases (i.e. PLA2s and Lp-PLA2) have been related with an increase in complex coronary lesions and increase in major cardiovascular clinical events, respectively. Therefore, inhibition of these enzymes has become the focus of research in this last decennium. Novel pharmacological inhibitors of those enzymes such as darapladib and varespladib emerge as promising therapeutical options for treating patients with coronary artery disease. Ongoing mechanistic and clinical outcome trials will further elucidate their role in this context.
Recent molecular advances have direct implications for research and daily practice. We provide a framework for the diagnosis of ataxias. For the first time, the therapeutic agents under investigation are targeted to deleterious pathways.
Most progress has been in the characterization of myoclonic syndromes with dystonia and epilepsy. Therapeutic options remain limited, and exploration of the role of functional neurosurgery may be worthwhile in the future, given the debilitating nature of many myoclonic syndromes.
The ability to quantify the onset and progression of beta-amyloid disorder in the brain offers the potential for investigating a host of questions concerning individual and neural vulnerability and the amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease itself. These findings will have important basic and clinical implications.
These findings will improve future strategies to prevent and treat Parkinson's disease dyskinesias and offer a much needed treatment for severe tardive dyskinesias.
ASL perfusion MRI provides a versatile biomarker of regional brain function that can be acquired as part of a multimodal MRI examination. Because ASL quantifies a physiological parameter, it should be useful for multisite or longitudinal studies.
The abnormal basal ganglia output leads to akinesia and rigidity. Parkinson's disease tremor most likely evolves as a downstream compensatory mechanism.
Graph theoretical analysis of neuroimaging data is growing rapidly and could potentially provide a relatively simple but powerful quantitative framework to describe and compare whole human brain structural and functional networks under diverse experimental and clinical conditions.
Multicenter neuroimaging trials, consortia, and collaboratives enable the acquisition of large-scale, purpose-driven datasets that can then be used by the broader community to model and predict clinical outcomes as well as guide clinicians in selecting treatment options for neurological disease.
Different pathophysiological mechanisms may underlie similar phenotypes whereas different genotypes may share similar functional abnormalities. The respective roles of corticostriatal-cortical and cerebellar loops remain to be clarified as the original causative process (either degenerative or developmental) is accompanied by functional reorganization.
Receptor mapping of the human brain, particularly multireceptor mapping, provides a novel and multimodal view of its anatomical, functional and molecular organization. It reveals organizational principles of the segregation of cortical and subcortical structures. It improves our understanding of the brain's architecture beyond the limits of cytoarchitectonics and serves as a basis for clinical and pharmacological studies of brain diseases.
The diagnosis of PMDs should not be regarded as a diagnosis of exclusion. Careful clinical assessment is critical, and imaging or electrophysiological studies may provide important insights and confirmation of the diagnosis though some cases remain challenging and current assessments fail to provide needed clarification. Treatment is often delayed, contributing to a largely unfavorable long-term outcome. Well designed randomized control trials that validate and compare therapeutic options are urgently required.
The combination of high throughput MRM and genomics will improve our understanding of the genetic basis of structure-function correlations. Sophisticated mouse models will be critical in converting correlations into mechanisms and in determining genetic and epigenetic causes of differences in disease susceptibility.
New concepts of the central origin of tremors stimulate the search for new therapeutic targets for tremor suppression outside the basal ganglia and thalamus (e.g. cortex). The role of structural neurodegenerative changes in essential tremor remains an open question. Further studies on specific subgroups of patients are necessary.
In the past, the white matter has often been treated as one compartment. With DTI and recently developed analysis tools, we can investigate the status of intra-white matter structures and deepen our understanding of white matter structures and their abnormalities under pathological conditions.
According to the current guidelines and within the limits of an in vitro study, it can be stated that flexible or semirigid splints such as the titanium trauma splint and wire-composite splints 1 and 2 are appropriate for splinting teeth with dislocation injuries and root fractures, whereas rigid splints such as wire-composite splint 3 and the titanium ring splint can be used to treat alveolar process fractures.
The data suggest that the TDI prevalence in individuals presenting CP and attending rehabilitation treatment was similar compared with non-disabled individuals, but they received less treatment.
This case report presents the treatment of a right central maxillary incisor of an 8-year old white male patient with history of traumatic avulsion and immediate replantation. The endodontic therapy consisted of periodical changes of calcium hydroxide dressing and a definitive root canal filling with mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA). The treatment was successful without pathologies up to 7 years of follow-up. After the institution of orthodontic treatment a localized and late root resorption was noticed at the last radiographic examination (8 years and 7 months postoperative follow-up). Moreover, the use of MTA promoted a mild crown grey discoloration.
Education is extremely important to favor the knowledge on prevention and emergency management of an avulsed tooth, and may enhance the prognosis of tooth avulsion.
The use of otherwise already widely available technologies, without any need for adaptors or otherwise additional technology, could significantly increase opportunities and quality diagnostics while lowering costs and considerably increasing connectivity between most isolated laboratories and distant reference center.
To the best of our knowledge this is the first nationally derived list of criteria, capable of being used in both undergraduate and postgraduate practice-based medical education. These criteria can provide a benchmark against which to set local criteria.
The varied patterns of methylation differences detected between tissues by our methylation profiling method reinforce the potential functional significance of regional differences in methylation levels outside of CpG islands.
During sevoflurane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia, the CSI was not significantly different from the BIS in the awake state and with sevoflurane concentration 0.5-1.5%.
Intrathecal morphine in a dose of 0.1 and 0.2 mg provides effective analgesia for up to 48 h without any need for systemic opioids at all in many patients.
These results suggest that the NMDAr is not functional in vascular smooth muscle, and the vasodilatory action of ketamine is independent of the NMDAr in the rat mesenteric artery.
The Endoflex endotracheal tube represents a beneficial tool for smooth oral and nasal intubation without requiring assistance or adjuvant equipment.
Insulin glargine was as effective as GIK regimen for perioperative glycaemic control during major surgery in insulin-dependent type 2 diabetic patients.
Day surgery patients appear to be a homogenous group with stable personalities, demonstrating some minor correlations between personality traits and the quality of postoperative recovery on days 1, 7 and 14. However, further studies are needed.
Overall practice was in accordance with national guidelines or practice patterns defined by the expert committee. Regional anaesthesia and postoperative analgesia-related techniques particularly were adequate. Some deficits were of limited importance (antibiotic prophylaxis and oxytocin administration), whereas others (use of succinylcholine and cricoid pressure) remain of concern.
Neither i.v. paracetamol nor i.v. metamizol provided a significant reduction in total postoperative morphine consumption compared with placebo in the management of postoperative pain after elective breast surgery. Administration of paracetamol resulted in a significant reduction in the number of patients needing opioid analgesics to achieve adequate postoperative pain relief.
We observed a greater reliability with the cerebral oximeter than with TCD in our patients.
Medial branch blocks in obese patients cannot be performed by ultrasound guidance exclusively.
Insertion of CVCs during prehospital emergency care is effective in providing intravenous access, thus facilitating the delivery of fluids and medications in unstable patients. It is safe, as associated with a low incidence of complications in experienced hands.
Elevated waiting times appeared as the unique independent risk factor of patient dissatisfaction. Information on delays and reasons for this delay could be systematically communicated to patients attending EDs; it could be an effective strategy to reduce perceived waiting times and improve patient satisfaction.
Triage quality regarding the choice of treatment unit was found to be excellent, whereas the quality of the assessment of the severity of the emergency by nonmedical ED admission staff was acceptable. ED patients have to be assessed by medical staff early after admission to ensure adequate and timely interventions.
Our data locally revealed that most of the participants in this survey would like to witness CPR conducted on their family members who presented to our emergency department.
SAGEC 67 is a website, which helps the physician in case of mass casualty disaster to face the lack of beds in Europe.
The prevalence of CL-related complications, regardless of lens design, material, and wear modality, highlights the importance of early detection with appropriate professional management and treatment.
These findings support the generalization of results of limbal redness grades from trials that are conducted in several countries or in one country and used in another, i.e., practitioners may expect similar findings for this sign among their patients no matter which of their colleagues are investigators. They also indicate that different strategies for grading limbal redness may exist among practitioners in the countries tested. Study sponsors may want to include standardized training for investigators.
Sutureless and adhesiveless amniotic membrane transplantation is a safe and effective method to promote healing and reconstruction of the ocular surface and orbit with minimal side effects. Recurrence of the underlying primary pathology remains a concern. The advent of a newer, softer conformer ring may improve patient tolerability and limit discomfort.
Severe capsular contracture causing in-the-bag IOL subluxation in retinitis pigmentosa can be effectively managed with this new technique of sutureless fibrin-glue-assisted PCIOL implantation.
Tandem scanning CM shows the presence of highly reflective particles at the level of the DSAEK interface that are morphologically similar to a laser in situ keratomileusis interface. The stromal reflectivity is more prominent in subepithelial layers than that of interface 6 months after DSAEK. However, the areas under the mean reflectivity peaks (CBU) corresponding to the flap interface and superficial anterior stroma do not seem to correlate with best spectacle corrected visual acuity results after the procedure.
Patients with a history of HSV keratitis should be counseled about the potential increased risk of recurrence that may be associated with contact lens wear.
ECPs recommended RFs more frequently with DD and 1M SH lenses than with 2W SH lenses, consistent with manufacturers' recommendations. Patients were less compliant with RF than ECPs for all lens types investigated. Patients were most compliant with RF when wearing DD lenses and least compliant when wearing 2W SH lenses. Better communication facilitated greater compliance with RF. More than half of those not replacing lenses, when recommended, reported that this was because they forgot which day to replace their lenses.
To our knowledge, this is the first case report of a corneal infection caused by A. xylosoxidans, which was isolated and identified from a contact lens, case, and solution using culture and PCR technique as well the first description of ocular surface disease resolution after the treatment with topical polymyxin B or trimethoprim. A. xylosoxidans should be considered as uncommon but potential pathogen capable of infectious spread through contaminated contact lens solution.
A high proportion of Singaporean children requiring vision correction are able to successfully wear daily disposable soft CLs over a 3-month period. Overall, slit lamp findings showed the prevalence of corneal staining in this study to be 21% at 3 months, which is lower than that previously reported in adults, but higher than that reported in the US Contact Lenses in Pediatrics study (6%).
There are significant differences in tear physiology and meibomian gland function in patients with blepharitis when compared with those without. All the tests employed would be useful as single tests in the diagnosis of blepharitis, with meibomian gland dropout of the lower eyelid offering the greatest effectiveness as a single measure.
Chronic amantadine hydrochloride therapy may be responsible for irreversible corneal edema and may lead to graft failure in unrecognized cases.
The global results suggest that homB and homA contribute to the determination of clinical outcome.
Our findings reinforce and quantify findings similar to those in the literature, and provide new data regarding the preference determinants for prophylactic medication.
Considering the discrepancy between the present and previous clinical studies, it is worthwhile revisiting the efficacy of preemptive triptan therapy during the aura phase of migraine attacks, using larger-scale, 3-way, crossover, placebo-controlled studies.
Dural reduction surgery may be considered in carefully selected patients with intracranial hypotension.
Intensive multidisciplinary headache treatment is highly effective for patients with chronic headaches. Furthermore, migraine symptomatology responds especially well to this intensive treatment program, whereas effects on tension-type headaches were realized by both multidisciplinary programs. Randomized controlled trials and subgroup analysis are needed to find out if these results can be replicated and which patient characteristics allow for sufficient improvements for headache sufferers even with less complex treatment.
This study suggests a possible role for SPG stimulation in the treatment of refractory migraine headaches.
In migraineurs who reported poor response to a short-acting triptan, sumatriptan/naproxen sodium was generally well tolerated and significantly more effective than placebo in conferring initial, intermediate, and sustained efficacy for pain and migraine-associated symptoms of photophobia and phonophobia.
Considering their pivotal role in advising migraine patients who seek their help with self-management, migraine education of pharmacy personnel about proper migraine management should be reinforced.
The excess of psychiatric comorbidity in patients with MOH can be related either to medication overuse or to chronification of headache. Among anxiety disorders, we observed a high rate of subclinical OCD. However, a direct link between compulsive behavior and medication overuse cannot be established yet. OCD in MOH might be underdiagnosed and undertreated.
These results provide evidence of the reproducibility, convergent validity, and responsiveness to treatment of the Sleep Quality Scale and provide a foundation for its further use and evaluation in FM patients.
In this first study to use Rasch analysis to fully assess the psychometric properties of the MSIS-29 support was found for the two subscales but not for the use of the total scale. Further use of Rasch analysis on the MSIS-29 in larger and broader samples is recommended to confirm these findings.
The intended outcome of the intervention was not met. The priorities of the intervention--to improve nurse-parent relationships--did not match the priorities of the nursing staff. Development of awareness and empathy was not enough to provide care that was satisfactory to clients in the context of working conditions that were unsatisfactory to nurses.
We developed a simple tool designed to gather data from senior hospital administrators on factors likely to affect the success of a hospital patient flow improvement intervention. A minimization algorithm will ensure balanced allocation of the intervention with respect to these factors in study hospitals.
Leukocytoclastic vasculitis was the commonest type of vaculitis presenting to the dermatology outpatient department. The workup of patients with cutaneous vasculitis includes detailed history, clinical examination and investigations to rule out multisystem involvement followed by skin biopsy and DIF at appropriate stage of evolution of lesions. Follow up of these patients is very essential as cutaneous manifestations may be the forme fruste of serious systemic involvement.
This study showed that MF does not correlate with HTLV-1 infection in Iran.
Keloids do not appear to have significant negative impacts on keloid patients in a keloid-endemic community like a black African population.
DCP therapy was found to be effective in inducing and maintaining remission in pemphigus, provided the patients receive regular and complete treatment.
There seems to be no difference between pattern of infection in the general population and prisoners' population in the aspects evaluated.
The simulation provides a reliable tool for treatment optimization and patient education as obtaining relevant clinical data is slow and labor-intensive. Its visual interface and online availability makes it useful for everyday use.
In our study, multiplex PCR based detection system was found useful in detecting opportunistic viruses in HIV infected individuals. Though EBV is the most prevalent opportunistic viral infection among HIV infected individuals, there was no significant association between EBV load, CD4+ T cell counts and HIV-1 virus load. CMV was seen in HIV infected individuals with low CD4+ T cell counts (less than 200 cells/microL).
Of the total 6143 (42%) isolates positive for M. tuberculosis complex, 6015 (41%) were positive by MGIT 960 TB system. In contrast, 3526 (24%) M. tuberculosis complex isolates grew on the conventional L.J medium. The mean turn around time for mycobacterial growth in smear-positive specimens was nine days for MGIT 960, and 38 days for L.J. medium whereas in smear negative specimens it was 16 days by MGIT vs. 48 days by L.J.
MGIT 960 system with PNBA assay for identification of M. tuberculosis complex is a rapid and useful method in laboratories processing a large number of specimens.
micro-capture ELISA technique was found to be more sensitive than PCR (92.6%) for detection of congenital CMV infection. ELISA is also rapid, less cumbersome and cost effective for diagnosis of CMV infection.
Rifampicin-resistant genotypes were mainly found in codon positions 516, 526 and 531. PCR-SSCP seems to be an efficacious method of predicting rifampicin resistance and substantially reduces the time required for susceptibility testing from 4 to 6 weeks to a few weeks.
Resistance testing to check the prevalence of drug resistance mutations that arise following failure of the first line regimen to establish guidelines for second line regimens in India is a must. Studies are needed to confirm if mutation patterns that arise among clade C following failure of ART are the same as for clade B strains.
PCR is a more reliable method to detect middle ear pathogens in MEF in comparison with the conventional culture methods. The NP colonization wasn't found to be an indicator of the pathogen in MEF although middle ear pathogens colonize more in nasopharynx of diseased children.
Some commonly used medications account for a major proportion of AEs in elderly. Prospective studies of similar nature could further help us assess the burden of AEs in elderly.
Clofibrate is an effective adjunctive drug in neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, which results in decreased TSB level and reduced duration of phototherapy in late pre-term newborns.
Age above 40 years is a significant risk factor for death in patients of tuberculosis. There was a significant difference in survival curves of the three DOTS categories and age groups.
Our data suggest that VDR gene polymorphism in combination of genotypes is associated with the risk of T2DM and thus requires further studies as a probable genetic risk marker for T2DM.
Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a rare systemic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology and pathogenesis, usually presenting with high spiking fever accompanied by systemic manifestations. The disease is an entity with heterogeneous pathology; and diverse suggested etiologies, clinical manifestations and prognoses. There is no single diagnostic test for AOSD; rather, the diagnosis is based on a set of criteria, the most important of which are indeed clinical, but they also include paraclinical ones. Treatment aims at both minimizing inflammation and halting disease progression. For the former, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have limited efficacy; so glucocorticoids in conjunction with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs are also used. Novel therapeutic approaches such as anti-tumor necrosis factor blockade and monoclonal antibodies are promising.
A moderately high prevalence of trichomonal infection was found among women in our study. Trichomonal infection was associated with unprotected sex and multiple sex partners. Efforts to control the continued spread of trichomonal infection are warranted.
S. platensis (400 mg kg(-1)) significantly normalizes changes observed in arthritic rats to near normal conditions, indicates that S. platensis has promising protective efficacy against CIA rats.
(1) The capsaicin used in the physiological and pharmacological observations (in animals and human beings) chemically represents different chemical compounds, which can be obtained from the plants (paprika, chilli, etc.), (2) capsaicinoids are able to modify the capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves, which have principle roles in the defence of different organs (including the gastrointestinal tract [against the different chemicals, heat, strech, chemical millieu-induced damage], (3) the application of capsaicin (capsaicinoids) can be repeated for the beneficial effects on the gastrointestinal tract as those in animal experiments. After this interdisciplinary and critical review, this paper demonstrates the well-planned research pathways of the discoveries of capsaicinoids from plant chemistry, via physiology, pharmacology and toxicology in animal experiments and human observations.
From cost-efficiency and public health perspectives, exercise-alone interventions can be considered valuable, as they are more likely to be implemented in countries with less resources. Further qualitative research is needed, however, to explore determinants of willingness to participate and comply with interventions aiming to prevent recurrent falls among older people.
A high risk of CVD appears to exist for adults across the life span, and several risky health behaviors also seem to place individuals more at risk for being diagnosed with CVD.
The greatly elevated risk of disability among Blacks aged 55 to 74 is largely explained by differences in socioeconomic status. Reductions in Black-White health disparities require a better understanding of the mechanisms whereby lower income and education are associated with functional outcomes in older persons.
In our study, some inpatients did not vote as a result of procedural issues. When patients with severe cognitive impairment vote, there is a potential risk of vote diversion. Voting procedures should be improved to give inpatients easier access to the ballot while protecting them from the risk of fraud.
Development of a cystocele requires a levator muscle impairment, an increase in abdominal pressure, and apical and paravaginal support defects.
Despite similar clinical outcome, the obvious reduction of cytokine expression and improved preservation of platelet count suggest superior biocompatibility of PC-coated circuits.
Postoperative chylothorax is an infrequent complication of surgery for congenital heart disease and can occur even after median sternotomy in the absence of pathologically elevated venous pressure or Fontan circulation. Although hospitalization can be prolonged, conservative therapy is effective in most cases, while surgical pleurodesis proved successful in the refractory cases.
The lower levels of NSE in patients who received methylprednisolone may suggest that corticosteroids might be useful in decreasing possible neuronal damage during heart surgery. However, we were not able to demonstrate an adverse neurological outcome.
Our results show that routine use of a kTEG-guided algorithm reduces the consumption of blood products in patients undergoing elective CABG. Adopting such an algorithm into routine management of these patients may help to improve clinical outcome and reduce the potential risks of transfusion-related complications and total costs after CABG.
QIP and early tracheal extubation reduce pulmonary complications and resource utilization after cardiac surgery.
Temporary RVOT pacing facilitates optimal bypass graft flows when compared with other ventricular pacing sites and should be the preferred method of temporary pacing in cardiac surgery patients with AF. Especially in patients with low EF following CABG, RVOT pacing may improve myocardial oxygen conditions for the ischemic myocardium and enhance graft patency in the early postoperative period.
Unroofing the anomalous coronary artery arising from the opposite sinus of valsalva can be done in infants with minimal morbidity and mortality. Longer follow-up is needed to assess long-term results.
A retained intrathecal catheter can be managed conservatively in certain contexts. Periodic follow-up visits, with or without repeat imaging, are recommended in these circumstances.
All patients undergoing cardiac surgery suffer deterioration in pulmonary functions. Pleurotomy seems to compound this with increased rates of atelectasis and pleural effusions. Moreover, preserving pleural integrity provides beneficial effects on pain score after coronary operations especially in the early postoperative period.
Topical application of tranexamic acid in patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass grafting led to a significant reduction in postoperative blood loss without adding extra risk to the patient.
Despite the importance of the inflammatory response and healing process in postinfarction left ventricular remodeling, the mechanisms that initiate and control these processes remain to be elucidated. The rationale and design of the present study is designed to test the postinfarction HMGB1 expression pattern and its relationship with cardiac remodeling as well as the effects of an exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation program.
These results indicate that hyperoxic preconditioning attenuates ventricular ischemia and reperfusion-induced arrhythmias in isolated rat hearts, decreases cardiac infarct size, and improves postischemic heart function. The effects seem to depend on the time course after hyperoxia treatment.
Elevated admission cTnT predicts worse microvascular function in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients managed with emergency percutaneous coronary intervention. Measuring admission cTnT might provide the interventionalist with useful information for selecting additional therapies that benefit coronary microcirculation.
This study confirmed that there is currently a lack of interest in gastrointestinal surgery, based largely on negative presumptions, especially about its workload.
There is no major difference in either the surgical or functional results between hand-sewn or stapled colonic J-pouch anastomosis by laparotomy for rectal cancer. Because it is simpler and faster to perform, a stapled pouch is preferable when the tumor site so permits.
The overall sensitivity of computed tomography (CT) for all the criteria studied was 93%. The predictive value for AM rupture of visualization of thick calcifications was 100%. On the other hand, rupture never occurred when the CT showed an AM under pressure, with thin walls and septa. The predictive value for PMP of "scalloping" was 100%. The diagnostic accuracy of the initial reading was 25/27 for the imaging overall and 25/25 for the CT. Preoperative visualization of the exact size of the intact AM or of diagnostic information about ruptured AM and PMP helped to select an appropriate approach in 25 of 27 cases.
sFlt1-e15a emerged as an alternate transcript of Flt1 late in evolution with the insertion of an AluSq sequence into the primate genome after the emergence of the simian infraorder about 40 million years ago. sFlt1-e15a is particularly abundant in human placenta and trophoblasts and is also highly expressed in nonhuman primate placenta. The expressed protein has a C-terminal polyserine tail and, like reference sequence sFlt1 (sFlt1-i13), is glycosylated and secreted. Consistent with a role in placental pathophysiology, hypoxia stimulates sFlt1-e15a expression in isolated cytotrophoblasts and a trophoblast cell line, and differentiation into syncytiotrophoblasts further enhances the effect of hypoxia. Placental levels of sFlt1-e15a and sFlt1-i13 transcripts are significantly elevated in patients with preeclampsia compared with normal pregnancies. We speculate that sFlt1-e15a may contribute to the pathophysiology of preeclampsia.
Cabergoline withdrawal is practical and safe in a subset of patients as defined by The Pituitary Society guidelines; however, the average risk of long-term recurrence in our study was over 60%. Close follow-up remains important, especially within the first year.
Our data suggest that the Ang/Tie-2 system, through the participation of blood vessels, inflammatory cells, and TFC, may have an important role in the recruitment of monocytes to the thyroid gland and the pathogenesis of the tissue damage seen in AITD.
An Ask1-MKK4-p38MAPK/JNK pathway reflects adipocyte stress associated with adipose tissue inflammation, linking visceral adiposity to whole-body insulin resistance in obesity.
We observed expected effects on biochemical markers of bone turnover and bone mass after surgical treatment of mild pHPT, with stable values in the group randomized to observation. For a variety of measures of the metabolic syndrome, adipokines, and CV risk factors, no benefit of operative treatment could be demonstrated. Neither did we observe any deleterious effects of conservative management in the 2-yr perspective.
It is suggested that the attenuation of eutopic endometrial stromal cell-mediated contractility by decidualization is a novel and integral mechanism of the physiological endometrial tissue remodeling process during menstrual cycles. Although ectopic endometrial stromal cells have enhanced contractile profile, decidualization can attenuate the contractility of these cells. These findings may be one of the action mechanisms by which oral contraceptives and progestins ameliorate endometriosis.
We report a novel KCNJ11 mutation causing PNDM. Our results show that residues 28-32 in the N terminus of Kir6.2 interact both physically and functionally with SUR1 and suggest that residues 196-288 of SUR1 are important in this interaction.
Multiple metabolic and genetic factors contribute to variation in plasma levels of PCSK9 in the general population. Although levels of PCSK9 correlate with plasma levels of LDL-C, they account for only a small proportion of the variation in the levels of this lipoprotein.
ZAG might be involved in the pathogenesis of obesity-related metabolic disorders in humans and thus warrants further investigation.
During fixed T/E(2) availability, AVF contributes 41% of the GH-response variability to maximal GHRH drive, whereas IGF-I accounts for 31% of that for GHRP-2. Accordingly, a statistically equalized sex-steroid milieu permits dissection of age-independent and T/E(2)-independent modulators of GHRH and GHRP efficacy in men.
Hyperandrogenism is variably associated with reduced GnRH pulse generator sensitivity to P-mediated slowing during adolescence. In addition to androgen levels, insulin resistance may modulate P sensitivity.
In older men, lower total testosterone levels predict increased incidence of stroke or TIA after adjusting for conventional risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Men with low-normal testosterone levels had increased risk. Further studies are warranted to determine whether interventions that raise circulating testosterone levels might prevent cerebrovascular disease in men.
In postmenopausal women with normal to low bone mass, arzoxifene 20 mg/d increased BMD at the spine and hip and had a neutral effect on the uterus and endometrium.
We have observed evidence of association with two independent TCF7L2 loci in a PCOS cohort: 1) association between the proinsulin:insulin molar ratio and the T2D locus; and 2) association with reproductive PCOS phenotype and a novel locus. This study suggests that variation in different regions of a susceptibility gene contributes to distinct phenotypes.
In addition to changes in FSH requirements for follicular maturation, pretreatment with rhLH/rhCG evoked unambiguous elevations in serum levels of endogenous LH during FSH treatment in HH patients with preserved pituitary function. This is suggestive of a novel regulatory loop of LH secretion involving gonadotropin-stimulated ovarian factors whose nature and physiological relevance are yet to be disclosed, ovarian-derived kisspeptins being appealing candidates.
KLF15 is potentially a novel link between the regulation of testosterone production and fat stores by insulin in humans.
This study shows that iodine fortification induced a temporary, modest increase in the incidence of hyperthyroidism as measured by use of antithyroid medication. A new steady state has not yet evolved.
Together, these data show that the regulation of lipolysis by the main endocrine hormones is impaired in women with PCOS. These lipolytic defects can be partly reversed by aerobic exercise training independent of changes in body fat mass and sex hormones.
Simvastatin exerted a potent inhibitory effect on the development of endometriosis in the nude mouse. Mechanisms of action of simvastatin may include inhibition of MMP-3. The present findings may lead to the development of novel treatments of endometriosis involving statins.
Our data are the first to demonstrate a reduced quality of life in patients who develop GHD after cure of acromegaly compared to those who are GH sufficient. Further studies are warranted to determine whether GH replacement would improve quality of life for patients with GHD after cure from acromegaly.
Transdermal NES gel alone had gonadotropin suppression activity. Combined transdermal NES (6 or 8 mg) plus T gel demonstrated safe and effective suppression of gonadotropins, justifying a longer-term study of this combination for suppression of spermatogenesis.
Cholestatic liver dysfunction and biliary sludge are very common during prolonged critical illness but are significantly reduced by IIT.
Parenteral iron suppresses renal tubular phosphate reabsorption and 1alpha-hydroxylation of vitamin D resulting in hypophosphatemia. Our data suggest that this is mediated by an increase in FGF23.
This is the first study to document pretreatment IGF-I concentration as a predictor of radiographic osteoarthritis in acromegalic patients with long-term disease control.
Our findings indicate a novel cross-sectional association between plasma copeptin and measures of insulin resistance and MetSyn.
These studies demonstrate that untreated hyperthyroidism is associated with elevated CgA level that changes in parallel to thyroid status. It is therefore possible to use CgA concentration as a potential marker of disease activity in hyperthyroidism.
Short-term administration of pegvisomant leads to a reduction in overnight endogenous glucose production, and this may be related to reduced levels of FFA.
The identification of the AIP-RET complex represents a starting point to study key cellular processes involved in RET-induced apoptosis.
A postnatal testosterone surge does not seem to be critical for male-typed sexual behaviors in men with anorchia when adolescent testosterone replacement has occurred.
PPARD variation is clearly associated with a phenotype of reduced stature in both adults and children. Because height is an important indicator of metabolic and nutritional status, this provides additional support for a key role for PPARdelta in critical metabolic functions. PPARdelta may affect height through a variety of mechanisms including altered metabolic efficiency or effects on osteoclast function.
IGF-2 overexpression, newly acquired in the metastatic tumor, was associated with loss of IGF2 gene imprinting and different promoter usage. The imprinting control mechanism governing the IGF2/H19 locus was intact, as evidenced by normal levels of H19, maintenance of H19 imprinting, and no major change in methylation of the imprinting control regions.
These results indicate that, in human PPNAD tissues, dexamethasone paradoxically stimulates cortisol release through a glucocorticoid receptor-mediated effect on PKA catalytic subunits.
In children with PWS, the central apnea index increased significantly after metyrapone administration, particularly in those with CAI during stress. In addition, children with CAI had a higher central apnea index compared to those without several months before the metyrapone test.
Accuracy of this technology has improved in the short amount of time it has been available. Six-month data suggest that patient selection is a key for success. Patients who do not understand or practice the basics of intensive insulin therapy have the greatest challenges. Those who do best watch the receiver frequently, continue with frequent home blood glucose monitoring, use the trending information to make insulin adjustments, and understand the limitations of the technology. With insurance reimbursement improving, CGM is gaining acceptance as an important tool for the management of type 1 diabetes. Like home blood glucose monitoring and insulin pump therapy, this technology by itself is not a panacea for diabetes control. However, it further adds to our ability to improve the lives of people with diabetes. Long-term, the hope is that this technology will pave the way for a "closed-loop" device.
There is no consistent pattern of relationship between 25-OHD and either fractional or total calcium absorption in school-age children. However, there appears to be a modest calcium absorptive response to higher 25-OHD during early puberty.
Higher pentosidine levels are a risk factor for fracture in older adults with diabetes and may account in part for reduced bone strength in type 2 diabetes.
Whether hereditary or somatic after birth, activating mutations of the TSH receptor have the same qualitative consequences on the thyroid cell phenotype, but somatic mutations in AAs have a much stronger effect than FNAH mutations. Both are variants of one disease: genetic hyperthyroidism.
Our results suggest that human placenta and choriocarcinoma cells secrete transthyretin, which binds extracellular T(4), and that T(4) binding results in increased internalization of TTR-T(4) complex. TTR production by trophoblasts may represent a mechanism to allow transfer of maternal thyroid hormone to the fetal circulation that could have important implications for fetal development.
In conclusion, higher IGF-I levels were associated with higher lung volumes in men, whereas in women this association was only detectable in subjects older than 50 yr. Higher IGF-I values were not associated with increased respiratory muscle strength measured as maximal inspiratory pressure.
Our results demonstrate the existence of two previously unidentified sst5 spliced variants with distinct distribution in normal tissues and pituitary tumors, unique ligand-selective signaling properties, and subcellular distribution, which could contribute to somatostatin and cortistatin signaling in normal and tumoral cells.
The reviewed validation studies suggest that this automated bone age determination system has adequate accuracy, precision, and efficiency to be clinically useful.
rhGH significantly improved height SDS for children with NS at NAH. Duration of prepubertal rhGH and height SDS at puberty were important contributors to NAH. Because starting age of the patients in this report was 11.6 yr, these data suggest that greater growth optimization is possible with earlier initiation of therapy.
Men with KS had a general shift toward lower values in distribution of serum fT4 with no compensatory increase in serum TSH. The most likely mechanism is a decrease or change in set point of thyrotroph control of thyroid function.
The response to teriparatide is attenuated when readministered after a 12-month hiatus.
Although this retrospective analysis of patients from a single center does not permit prediction of response rates among patients diagnosed elsewhere, it suggests that unilateral adrenalectomy can be beneficial in some patients with apparent bilateral PA and should not be dismissed as a treatment option.
Pubertal development in PWS is characterized by normal adrenarche, variable hypothalamic dysfunction, and hypogonadism due to a unique testicular defect. Primary testicular dysfunction is a major component of hypogonadism in PWS.
Whereas these studies cannot exclude the role of genetic variation in the lamin a/c gene in isolated cases of PCOS, we can conclude that common variation in the lamin a/c gene does not contribute to the etiology of PCOS in women of European ancestry.
Beta-cell function, adjusted for age-related insulin resistance, decreases throughout life in first-degree relatives. This deterioration may be exacerbated in the presence of autoantibodies. Oral glucose tolerance test data combined with a nonlinear mixed-effect modeling population approach may be a useful technique to evaluate SI and secretion in a population.
Elderly men with low serum testosterone and estradiol have increased risk of mortality, and subjects with low values of both testosterone and estradiol have the highest risk of mortality.
Increased fat mass is associated with smaller bone size, challenging the view of a high bone mass index as a protective factor for osteoporosis, whereas lean mass was a consistent positive determinant of bone size.
During rest, appetite is influenced by the size and energy content of meals, but it bears no homeostatic relationship to between-meal changes in energy availability due to small meals, exercise, or TPN, or concentrations of ghrelin, leptin, and insulin.
The present study showed for the first time a high osteoclastogenic potential of PBMCs from 21-OHD patients on cGC therapy. This spontaneous osteoclastogenesis seems to be supported by both the presence of circulating OCPs and factors released by T cells.
In dialysis patients, rhIGF-I administration at a moderate dose has no protein metabolic effect, but the association with a moderate dose of rhGH is followed by a significant anabolic response.
VF rate is increased in postmenopausal women with PHPT compared to controls, independently of whether they are classified as symptomatic or asymptomatic. The question of whether the finding of mild morphometric VFs in the latter represents an indication for parathyroid surgery remains to be established.
Women with POI have lower bone density compared to regularly menstruating women. Compared to Caucasians, minority women with estrogen deficiency are more likely to have BMD below the expected range for age. This racial disparity appears to be related to a combined effect of several modifiable risk factors. Delay in diagnosis of POI also contributes to reduced bone density by delaying proper therapy.
These studies conclusively demonstrate that in human GL cells PGRMC1 functions as a receptor through which P4 activates a signal cascade that prevents apoptosis. In contrast, PGRMC1 does not mediate P4's ability to acutely promote its own secretion.
CDC25A is subject to translational control by BOLL, which is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism. A decreased CDC25A expression caused by lack or decrease of BOLL may be associated with male infertility.
BW was nongenetically, positively associated with adult height and total and regional fat mass in an age-dependent manner. BW and total and regional body fat percentages were nongenetically associated with insulin sensitivity in the elderly subjects, supporting an influence of the fetal environment on insulin sensitivity that is quantitatively similar to and independent of the effect of adult adiposity.
mAchR mutations are absent or rare (less than 2.6%) in familial IGHD type IB.
Mutations in the HADH gene are associated with protein-induced HH, and patients with HH due to HADH gene mutations may have normal acylcarnitines and urine organic acids.
Overweight/obesity, thyroid hypoechogenicity, and nonsynonymous mutations in the TSH-R gene are characterizing features of a large portion of SH children.
Adult offspring of women with diet-treated GDM or type 1 diabetes are risk groups for overweight and the metabolic syndrome. Intrauterine hyperglycemia may in addition to genetics and other factors contribute to the pathogenesis of overweight and the metabolic syndrome.
The clinical data of our cases enlarge the wide spectrum of patients with HNF1B anomaly. The underlying molecular defect in all cases was a 1.3- to 1.7-Mb deletion, and paired, segmental duplications along with breakpoints were most likely involved in this recurrent chromosomal microdeletion.
Women expected to relieve their sleep disturbance by finding comprehensive counselling or by their body constitution responding to treatment. Healthcare providers need to value women's individual concerns and subjective voices. Providers must seek out sleep counselling instead of simply prescribing drugs for their sleep difficulties.
It is crucial to integrate perimenopausal sleep care by implementing a multidimensional approach such as sleep assessment laboratories, sleep counselling, complementary alternative medicine, sleep strategies and support groups.
The educational intervention based on Bandura's self-efficacy theory is effective in promoting pregnant women's self-efficacy for childbirth and reducing their perceived pain and anxiety in the first two stages of labour.
Relief of pain and anxiety is an important issue for both women and childbirth health professionals. The efficacy-enhancing educational intervention should be further developed and integrated into childbirth educational interventions for promoting women's coping ability during childbirth.
Meridian acupressure was an effective intervention for improving the movement of the affected upper extremities, increasing activity of daily living and decreasing depression of hemiplegia stroke patients.
Health professionals need to consider an array of methods including Meridian acupressure for the rehabilitation of stroke patients. Meridian acupressure has the potential as an alternative nursing intervention for multidisciplinary rehabilitation of stroke patients in practice.
Listening to music during bed rest after open-heart surgery has some effects on the relaxation system as regards s-oxytocin and subjective relaxations levels. This effect seems to have a causal relation from the psychological (music makes patients relaxed) to the physical (oxytocin release).
Music intervention should be offered as an integral part of the multimodal regime administered to the patients that have undergone cardiovascular surgery. It is a supportive source that increases relaxation.
The majority of the parents of hospitalised children in Taiwan can be expected to use folk remedies for the purpose of psychological and spiritual support during child hospitalised.
Healthcare providers need to be aware of the folk remedies used within various cultural groups so that culturally appropriate and safe care can be provided for the child and family.
Although this study provides modest support for the effectiveness of Progressive Muscle Relaxation Technique on quality of life of multiple sclerosis patients, further research is required to determine better methods to promote quality of life of patients suffer multiple sclerosis and other chronic disease.
Progressive Muscle Relaxation Technique is practically feasible and is associated with increase of life quality of multiple sclerosis patients; so that health professionals need to update their knowledge about complementary therapies.
It was detected that the distraction made with kaleidoscope effectively reduced the pain related to venipuncture in healthy school children and that some features of the children influenced the perception of pain.
Distraction with kaleidoscope is a method, which the nurse will be able to use for venipuncture to obtain optimal pain control. In addition, it is important for a nurse to know some features about the children for a pain free and positive experience.
This study demonstrated that progressive muscle relaxation training can effectively alleviate anxiety in patients with schizophrenia.
Progressive muscle relaxation training is potentially an effective nursing intervention in the reduction of anxiety in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, depending on the quality of their mental status at the time of intervention. Progressive muscle relaxation training is a useful intervention as it is proven to reduce anxiety levels across a spectrum of psychiatric disorders.
Higher disability was explained by older age, female, unmarried, diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, more joint pain, more disease severity, more depression and more use of pain management strategies in arthritis patients.
Nurses are urged to recognise the individual differences among the factors that are thought to contribute most to disability. An individualised, multidimensional and comprehensive treatment plan with informational support is essential to maximise pain management skills of arthritic older people to achieve improvement in pain, level of disability and mental health.
It is to encourage patients' family members to participate in counselling situations in emergency departments. However, the type of information passed on to family members should be carefully discussed and prepared.
Patients' family members seem to be important partners in counselling situations. The presence of family members supports patients in the emergency department during the waiting period and helps them orientate in their situation. When family members are present, issues which patients wish to discuss should be carefully planned. Family presence should be encouraged in emergency departments.
All relatives experienced soft tissue massage positively, although they were under considerable stress. Soft tissue massage could be an option to comfort and support relatives in palliative home care.
In palliative nursing care, soft tissue massage could present a worthy supplement in supporting caring relatives.
The findings suggest that the Self Regulation Model may provide a useful framework for understanding and explaining adherence to therapeutic regimens of patients with hypertension across cultures. RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE. Factors that affect the patients' adherence to prescribed medications and self-management recommendations differ greatly. Despite its subjectivity, identity showed significantly predictive effects on adherence to self-management. Understanding patients' lay views on hypertension allows health professionals providing effective care for better adherence to therapeutic regimens.
Since we found that 78.6% of those using herbals were satisfied with their results and 69.2% were planning to continue use, it is important for healthcare providers to have relevant knowledge about complementary alternative medicine use and learn about its efficacy and effects (positive and adverse) of these treatments. Relevance to clinical practice. Botanical substitute for insulin seems unlikely, but complementary alternative treatments may provide valuable clues for the development of new oral hypoglycaemic agents and simple dietary agents. It is important for healthcare providers to have up-to-date knowledge about the use and effects of complementary alternative medicines in the outpatient clinical care setting.
The results of this study showed that many patients used herbal products, but most did not disclose this use to their physician. Herbal product use was more prevalent among the participants who were married.
Understanding the patterns and reasons of herbal use is beneficial in efforts to improve the care of patients with end-stage renal disease. Nurses should be aware of the potential health risks caused by herbal products and should educate the patient and the family.
Local informal care and support networks are as important as formal care for older people at risk of falls or who have fallen. Access to falls prevention programmes and services is limited for people living in more rural communities.
Falls prevention initiatives and services should work with local communities, agencies and informal carers to ensure equitable access and provision of information, resources and care to meet the needs of older people at risk or who have fallen.
This study helps professionals to enhance their understanding and awareness of the possibilities for people with moderate or severe traumatic brain injury to feel well. The study showed that people with traumatic brain injury needed a lot of strength to achieve this. Professionals can help them to feel well by getting to know them and thus find ways to support the person's feeling of wellbeing.
The results of this study lend support to the effectiveness of providing equitable services to persons diagnosed with chronic hepatitis C. However, additional research is needed to explore gender, socioeconomic, sexual-orientation, transmission, cultural, religious and genotype differences in this group to address their needs better.
Nurses play a significant role in educating patients with chronic hepatitis C, advocating for them and helping them to achieve a reasonable state of well being. Through deeper understanding of their experiences of illness and treatment, nurses can move beyond the medical oriented approach to care.
Perceived control during treatment for cancer influences patients' perceptions toward, and role preferences in, self care.
Clinical interventions designed to enhance involvement in self care would benefit from focussing on enhancing patients' perceived control and understanding their role preferences in self care. Patients with different understandings of perceived control may require different help and support to encourage their involvement in self care.
In this study patients experience highest level of anxiety at induction of anaesthetics. The operating theatre environments impact on patients' anxiety are in less degree influenced by the sight and hearing of the technical equipment and the surroundings. Continuous information and opportunity to ask questions reduces patients' anxiety. Results indicate that there is a significant positive relationship between generalised anxiety and depression prior to admission and anxiety experienced during the intraoperative period.
Generalised anxiety and depression prior to surgery should be identified to implement nursing interventions to reduce anxiety in the operating theatre.
Among community-dwelling Korean older adults, limited health literacy is associated independently with higher rates of chronic medical conditions and lower subjective health status.
Nurses are key to providing health education to older adults. The understanding of the relationship of health literacy to health status is essential to develop communication and health education efforts for older adults in nursing practice.
Nurses in both cities emphasised their need for increased knowledge and experience, improved communication skills and greater support from team members and the hospital for perinatal bereavement care.
These findings may be used by nursing educators to educate their students on issues related to delivery of sensitive bereavement care in perinatal settings and to enhance nursing school curricula.
Manipulation of image quality resulted overall acceptance of monitoring video, with residual levels of concerns. OR nurses may express staff privacy concern in the form of concerns over patient privacy.
This study provided suggestions for technological and implementation strategies of video monitoring for coordination use in OR. Deployment of communication technology and integration of clinical information will likely raise concerns over staff privacy and performance monitoring. The potential gain of increased information access may be offset by negative impact of a sense of loss of autonomy.
Improving the educational programme and clinical practice for nursing students is necessary but may not be adequate. Valuing the affective aspect of education, formal recognition of this extended role and advancing related education to a post-experience level would also benefit the development of sexual health care.
Preparing more mentors as exemplars, inviting clinicians and managers as partners in sexual health-related care would help nursing students to work efficiently for clients with sexual health concerns.
Education, age, work experience, care unit size and specialised training are associated with differences in attitudes. We recommend that employers be proactive in encouraging and facilitating staff development by offering further training that aims to impart more positive attitudes.
Improvements in staff competency levels will be more important in the future, as a result of the forecasted increase in the percentage of the population who will suffer from dementia and reside in nursing homes.
The first year, especially the first three months after hospital discharge, is critical for improvements in health-related quality of life and physical functioning for older stroke survivors in Taiwan.
Older Taiwanese/Chinese people who suffer a stroke will likely benefit from interventions during the first 12 months after discharge and the most effective interventions may be earlier, during the first three months after discharge.
Attaining a balance in caring for dying patients is a major challenge to nurses: it concerns not only their interactions with patients and their families, but also their perceptions of themselves and their actions in end-of-life care.
In end-of-life care, it is important for nurses to be able to change the focus of their care when the patient's condition is diagnosed as irreversible. They also need to be well equipped to maintain a balance, thereby preparing themselves for the patient's forthcoming death.
Increasing levels of social support could ameliorate the degree of uncertainty, anxiety and depression in older cancer patients. Nurses should provide resources to establish an effective social network to older cancer patients who were being treated surgically.
These findings can assist nurses in understanding the psychological adjustment needs among older cancer patients who were undergoing surgery and provide appropriate intervention in nursing care.
Results of this study show that both registered nurses and student nurses have negative perceptions of obesity and are unlikely to attribute positive characteristics to obese individuals. That registered nurses hold more negative attitudes towards obese person is cause for concern.
Given the increasing prevalence of obesity and the disproportionate number of obese persons affected by many health conditions, current and future nurses should have positive professional attitudes towards obese individuals. Obesity needs to be more adequately addressed, both in basic nursing education programs and in continuing professional education for practising nurses.
The use of this synthesised approach provides a true reflection of Glaser's idea of 'emergence of theory from the data' and Strauss and Corbin's style of sampling and memoranda writing is employed. This multi-step synthesised method of data analysis maintains the philosophical perspective of grounded theory.
This method indicates how grounded theory has developed, where it might go next in nursing research and how it may continue to evolve.
Potentially inappropriate medications are prescribed in a significant proportion of elderly people in primary care, with significant economic implications.
The elderly constitutes a population at high risk of DDIs. As physicians still have some difficulty in managing this problem, it is essential to highlight for them, which factors raise the risk of DDIs.
Prescription rates of antibiotics for ARTI in this trial were low and patients were treated mainly with non-antibiotic symptomatic medications. Efforts to reduce antibiotic prescribing may induce higher rates of use of medications for intensive symptomatic treatment. Considerable differences between prescribed and dispensed medications were noted.
There was overwhelming recognition of the value of research to the pharmacy profession. Important factors encouraging individual pharmacists to participate in research were a desire to improve the profession, the opportunity to learn more about disease management and to provide enhanced services to patients, and personal interest.
The study showed that a pharmacist-physician co-managed programme for hyperlipidaemic patient was effective in getting more patients to reach their target lipid levels.
Since the relationship between the VPA concentrations of epileptic neonates and infants is noticeably different from the reference, the unbound serum VPA concentrations of these patients are not adequately estimated using the same method as that for grown-ups. The unbound VPA concentrations of neonates and infants should be explicitly determined via TDM activities.
Under the conditions of this study, calcium levofolinate in 5% dextrose infusion may be prepared, frozen in advance by CIVAS, and then microwave thawed before use. Such treatment extends long-term stability and releases pharmacist's time for major activities such as checking medication order errors.
We found 12 SNPs with minor allele frequency (MAF) values above 5% in the 5' regulatory regions, the exon, and surrounding introns of CYP1A2 gene based on previous reports in Koreans. In this study, two of twelve SNPs were lower than 5% in frequency (n = 400). The CYP1A2 haplotypes were analyzed based on 10 SNPs, confirmed to have MAF &gt;0.05 in this study. Four haplotypes (H1, H2, H3 and H4) represented most of the Korean population (&gt;94%).
The haplotype frequencies among the five ethnic groups revealed that haplotype distributions in Koreans were similar to those of the Japanese and Chinese, but were quite different to those of the Africans and Europeans. These LD and haplotype data should be useful in drug development and in understanding genetic associations of CYP1A2 with adverse drug effects. These inter-ethnic differences in frequencies of SNPs and haplotypes may help to explain inconsistencies that have been reported in association studies and could contribute to predict the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs that are metabolized by CYP1A2.
The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC(0--&gt;infinity)) and elimination half-life (T(1/2)) of omeprazole were significantly greater in the H2/H2 and H2/H3 groups than in the H1/H1 group (P &lt; 0.05), whereas the metabolic ratios of omeprazole to 5-hydroxyomeprazole were also markedly higher.
Although a specific SNP of CYP2C19 may be predictive of enzyme activity, haplotyping is more reliable for identifying poor metabolizers in populations with variant alleles other than CYP2C19*2 and *3 alleles.
These data demonstrate an association between PAF-AH allelic variation, plasma activity, and outcome in ARDS.
Our findings indicate that the Gly231Glu polymorphism is associated with a lower prevalence of ACE inhibitor-related cough.
In the application of the PM method for VCM treatment of elderly patients with MRSA, substitution of SCR based on the Jaffe method into the Cockcroft-Gault equation increases the predictability of the serum VCM trough level. The Bayesian method predicted the serum VCM trough level with high accuracy using any of the estimates of renal function.
The population pharmacokinetic parameters of vancomycin obtained here can be used to individualize the dosage of vancomycin in institutions with similar patient population characteristics.
Preoperative erectile function and the nerve-sparing procedure were predictors of early recovery of urinary continence after laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. If each case fulfills the oncologic criteria for nerve sparing, we should attempt nerve sparing to facilitate the early recovery of urinary continence despite the degree of preoperative erectile function.
Selective arterial clamping is a safe and feasible means of vascular control during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. In the porcine model, selective clamping appears to improve functional outcomes during prolonged periods of warm ischemic insult. Prospective evaluation of the technique in humans is necessary to determine if selective arterial control confers long-term functional benefits in patients with limited renal reserve.
This study shows that it is feasible to obtain histopathological diagnoses from postcryoablation biopsies with a diagnostic yield and interobserver agreement similar to precryoablation biopsies.
URO Mentor appears to be a realistic and useful training model for endourologic procedures.
Asymptomatic perforations of the bladder wall occur very frequently after a TURB procedure performed by residents in training and, most of the time, are not noticed by the surgeon. Localization of the tumor at bladder dome was the only factor that negatively influenced perforation rates.
In dialysis and kidney transplant patients with localized UUT-UC, simultaneous bilateral nephroureterectomy with hand-assisted laparoscopic approach offered less perioperative morbidity and, most importantly, comparable intermediate-term oncological and survival results when compared with its open counterpart. A longer follow-up is required to demonstrate the oncological efficacy of this minimally invasive procedure.
TURis offers the patient the same results as monopolar technology guaranteeing maximum safety without increasing the incidence of urethral strictures.
In a porcine laparoscopic partial nephrectomy model, it appears that knotless barbed suture is as effective, efficient, and safe as a conventional technique. Further evaluation in humans is warranted and required.
MLT may prevent UUO-induced kidney damage in rats by reducing oxidative stress. The mechanism for this is likely mediated via reduction in the expression of iNOS, p38-MAPK, and NF-kB, since MLT reduces the activation of these pathways.
Treatment of large bladder stones by transurethrally placed nephroscope is a fast and effective treatment modality compared to endoscopic treatment via cystoscope. Nephroscope allows for use of larger forceps and facilitates collection of large stone fragments through its 24F sheath. It also prevents multiple entries to the urethra and hence avoids possible urethral injury. Combined pneumatic/ultrasonic lithotripsy device, with its aspiration quality, enables the surgeon to gain a better endoscopic view during both procedures.
Application of SWs in the presence of obstruction has deleterious effects on the kidney tissue.
PCNL in patients who previously underwent open renal surgery is effective and safe. We found no difference in results between the two groups based on the number of stones and the number of accesses. The step 1 of dilatation was the only difference between the two groups.
Intermediate-term outcomes of percutaneous RFA are excellent. GA-assisted, contrast-enhanced CT-guided percutaneous RFA demonstrates a high initial ablation success rate. However, endophytic and interpolar lesions are at higher risk for recurrence.
LRC appears to have minimal impact on renal function as measured by serum Cr levels. LRC is nephron sparing and can be performed regardless of preoperative renal function.
Placement of Resonance metallic stents in patients with ileal conduits is ineffective for management of ureteroenteric strictures because of the high rate of distal migration.
The prototype technology and either method measured stone size with good accuracy and precision. This technology may be possible to incorporate into ureteroscopy.
Antibiotic use with control stents resulted in bacterial antibiotic resistance, which was not the case with the triclosan-eluting stents. Although triclosan-eluting stents did not show a clinical benefit in terms of urine and stent cultures or overall subject symptoms compared with controls, their use did result in decreased antibiotic usage and significantly fewer symptomatic infections. The triclosan-eluting stent alone is not sufficient to reduce device-associated infections in this difficult patient population.
Although today most stone cases can be handled by minimally invasive treatment, open stone surgery maintains a mandatory role in very selected cases. The most common indication in our series though was complex stones with a high stone burden especially in combination with anatomical variations.
Laparoscopic transvesical vesicovaginal fistula repair appears to be a safe and effective procedure that adheres to the principles of a transabdominal transvesical fistula repair while decreasing morbidity and improving cosmesis.
This high-flux proteomic classification system will provide a highly accurate and innovative approach for the detection/diagnosis of NPC.
The association between circulating IGF- I levels and the risk of lung cancer were not statistically significant; IGFBP-3, acts as a tumor suppressor and has a inverse correlation with the risk of lung cancer.
The physiologic upper limit of pore size in the BTB of malignant solid tumor microvasculature is approximately 12 nanometers. In the physiologic state in vivo the luminal fibrous glycocalyx of the BTB of malignant brain tumor and peripheral tumors is the primary impediment to the effective transvascular transport of particles across the BTB of malignant solid tumor microvasculature independent of tumor host site. The higher permeability of malignant peripheral tumor microvasculature to macromolecules smaller than approximately 12 nm in diameter is attributable to the presence of a greater number of pores underlying the glycocalyx of the BTB of malignant peripheral tumor microvasculature.
the femoral neck-derived volumetric BMD parameters using vQCT appeared better than the DXA-derived ones in discriminating osteoporotic postmenopausal women with vertebral fractures from those without. vQCT might be useful to evaluate the effect of osteoporotic vertebral fracture status on changes in bone mass in the femoral neck.
The results indicate a disinhibition-induced excitation effect of carnosine on the CA1 pyramidal neurons. It provides important information against the application of carnosine as a potential anticonvulsant in clinical treatment.
Rats can spontaneously establish intervertebral disc age-related degeneration. The expression of collagen types II and X, numbers and areas of afferent vascular buds, the ratio of the non-calcified to the calcified layers, and water and glycosaminoglycan contents in the nucleus pulposus are sensitive indexes of intervertebral disc degeneration.
Our results show that parthenolide significantly inhibits the VSMC proliferation by inducing G(0)/G(1) cell cycle arrest. IkappaBalpha and Cox-2 are likely involved in such inhibitory effect of parthenolide on VSMC proliferation. These findings warrant further investigation on potential therapeutic implications of parthenolide on VSMC proliferation in vivo.
The mechanism underlying gender difference may be linked with different memory traces resulting from different encoding strategies, as well as with different electrophysiological changes during daytime sleep.
We conclude that the repair of the diaphragmatic defect and pleurodesis through VATS could be an alternative of transjugular intrahepatic portal systemic shunt (TIPS) or a bridge to liver transplantation for patients with refractory hepatic hydrothorax. Pleurodesis with electrocauterization can be an alternative therapy if talc is unavailable.
We reported the first case of IgE myeloma with elevated level of serum CA125. To further evaluate clinical characteristics and significance of CA125 in IgE myeloma, more cases are needed.
Use of tubular diskectomy compared with conventional microdiskectomy did not result in a statistically significant improvement in the Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire score. Tubular diskectomy resulted in less favorable results for patient self-reported leg pain, back pain, and recovery.
Compared with no pneumococcal vaccination, a 2 + 1-dose and 2-dose schedule of PCV-7 resulted in significant reductions of vaccine serotype pneumococcal carriage in the second year of life.
We identified 5 genetic loci harboring common variants that were associated with variation in LV diastolic dimensions and aortic root size, but such findings explained a very small proportion of variance. Further studies are required to replicate these findings, identify the causal variants at or near these loci, characterize their functional significance, and determine whether they are related to overt cardiovascular disease.
Higher adiponectin levels are associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes across diverse populations, consistent with a dose-response relationship.
Oleic acid was found to be effective in reversing the inhibitory effect in insulin production of the inflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha. This finding is consistent with the reported therapeutic characteristics of other monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids. Furthermore, a diet high in oleic acid, which can be easily achieved through consumption of peanuts and olive oil, can have a beneficial effect in type II diabetes and ultimately reverse the negative effects of inflammatory cytokines observed in obesity and non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
Elimination of malaria deaths will require education of providers for prompt referral before complications, engagement of the private sector, community awareness for early treatment as well as scaled-up use of bed nets use and DDT. Use of newer generation anti-malarials must to be generalized.
This indicates that the ancestral P. falciparum parasite genome already contained multiple stevor genes that have subsequently diversified further within the different P. falciparum populations. It also confirms that STEVOR is under strong selection pressure.
While risedronate sodium prevented the decrease in bone mineral density in ovariectomized rats, atorvastatin maintained mechanical characteristics of bone and also prevented the decrease in bone mineral density as risedronate sodium.
Succeeding high levels of HT use in 2002, the prevalence in 2005 is below that in 1996, in accordance with national policies. In 2005 climacteric complaints seems to be the only predictor of HT use. Extensive long-term use in 2005 raises questions regarding compliance with treatment recommendations.
The use of 50mg oral DHEA did not significantly alter lipid profile, insulin sensitivity or adversely affect the endometrium in postmenopausal women.
We described the distribution of IMT and the prevalence of plaque in asymptomatic, early postmenopausal Chinese women. Associations of risk factors with IMT of different arterial segments were also observed.
More and qualified information should be provided to support women in making informed choices in relation to menopause and the use of systemic HT. Therefore, actions' should be carried out in order to strengthen the advisory role of clinicians and other sources of information, when taking care of women who may be using or thinking of using HT.
We propose a close relationship between the intratumoral insulin signalling system and AdipoR1 but not AdipoR2 expression. As AdipoR2 but not AdipoR1 expression seems to correlate with invasiveness, we assume different functions of the two adiponectin receptors in breast cancer.
Our finding supports the theory that evaluation of the bilateral hips with the lumbar spine seems to be more sensitive measure for identifying patients with an osteoporosis treatment indication. Furthermore, despite the well-known artifact in the lumbar spine, this site should not be excluded when determining the indication for OP treatment in elderly people.
In subjects with dyslipidemia, the presence of CAD is associated with an elevation of certain inflammatory markers and carotid IMT but not with further endothelial dysfunction.
Simultaneous knock down of the IAPs not only sensitised the PC-3 to TRAIL but also inhibited their proliferation rates and clonogenic survival. The inability to alter sensitivity to other triggers of apoptosis suggests that this effect is specific for death receptor pathways and knock down might facilitate immune-surveillance mechanisms to counter cancer progression and, in combination with therapeutic approaches using TRAIL, could represent an important treatment strategy.
Although the role of P-gp expression in the clearance of 99mTc-sestamibi remains unproven, we conclude that 99mTc-tetrofosmin is not as P-gp-avid as 99mTc-sestamibi. A role for P-gp expression in the clearance of 99mTc-sestamibi remains unproven. Higher doses of P-gp inhibitors will be required and clearance rates correlated with immunohistochemical expression of P-gp.
MRI hyperenhancement as a marker of myocardial scar closely agrees with 99mTc-sestamibi and 18F-FDG SPECT. Nuclear technology and DE-MRI show their own predominance and limitation in assessment of myocardial viability and detecting irreversibly injured tissue.
FDG-PET is especially effective in detecting patients with elevated thyroglobulin levels and normal radioiodine WBS; FDG-PET/CT is a more sensitive method in the follow-up of thyroid cancer recurrence or metastases, particularly in those with negative WBS.
The direct measurement of the regional rate constants by kinetic analysis might be useful for the delineation of CNS lymphoma and for differential diagnosis of high-grade glioma and CNS lymphoma.
The new method provides reliable quantification of the deposition in anatomic regions that can be defined in MR images. Accurate co-registration and quantification are essential when comparing distribution and clearance patterns for different administration techniques.
The quantitative gated SPECT methods showed a significant correlation with echocardiography in the calculation of the EF. LMC method showed close results to those obtained by QGS and ECTb with similar variability versus the measurements made by echocardiography. This study has investigated the utility of using LMC method in clinical practice; however, it will be more feasible when it becomes independent and extensively validated with other accurate techniques and in different patient conditions.
Intensity of lymphoma on FDG PET is likely associated with Glut1 expression. The nonlymphomatous, benign cells may play an important role in visualization of lymphoma on FDG PET.
The absence of significant group-by-time interactions in protein metabolism (i.e., NBAL and whole-body protein turnover) between LOW-FIT and FIT males suggest that aerobic fitness level does not modulate protein "sparing" in response to an unaccustomed increase in energy expenditure.
The measurements of the levels of cytokines are valuable as a reliable biomarker.
Candida albicans were the most common causative organisms in EFE. The most common predisposing risk factors include recent major operation and intravenous administration in rural settings. Most patients with EFE will gain useful vision (counting fingers) after pars plana vitrectomy.
Ophthalmologists and physicians should be aware of Klebsiella pneumonia as a possible cause of endogenous endophthalmitis, and endogenous Klebsiella endophthalmitis usually causes poor visual outcomes.
Various clinical signs, laboratory investigations, and biopsy results provided four diagnostic categories of sarcoid uveitis. The categorization allows prospective multinational clinical trials to be conducted using a standardized nomenclature, which serves as a platform for comparison of visual outcomes with various therapeutic modalities.
We found a higher incidence of ocular manifestations, including intraocular inflammation in neurosarcoidosis compared to that in systemic sarcoidosis elsewhere. The most common ocular complication seen in our series was anterior uveitis; however there were no associated clinical features of the uveitis in these series that could contribute to the differential diagnosis between neurosarcoidosis and other autoimmune disorders with neuro-ophthalmic features such as multiple sclerosis. Patients with neurological symptoms and associated intraocular inflammation should have a routine work-up for sarcoidosis. Investigations should include MRI scan of the brain and orbits and lumbar puncture in selected cases. Tissue biopsy should be attempted when clinically accessible lesions are available i.e., conjunctiva or lacrimal gland.
(18)F-FDG PET may show focal uptake suggestive of sarcoidosis in patients with unexplained uveitis.
These data suggest that MMF is effective in controlling sarcoidosis-related ocular inflammation, has a corticosteroid sparing effect and a manageable side-effect profile.
AION may occur in combined treatment of PEG-IFNalpha -2b and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C. Patients who are candidates for this treatment should be informed about its possible occurrence.
Suppressing IL-1 function may provide another therapeutic avenue in exudative AMD.
Raised levels of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha were observed in the inflammatory stage and persisted in the proliferative stage of the disease. The IL-1 system and TNF-alpha represent novel target for immunotherapy for controlling inflammatory activity and/or the associated long-term sequelae related to angiogenesis in Eales disease.
Syphilis has reemerged in developed countries. This may be related to the post-AID S/HAART era, with a growing pool of HIV-positive men who oftenly practice unsafe sex. We underscore the importance of a high index of suspicion of ocular syphilis in patients with these characteristics.
Intravitreal corticosteroid can modulate the immune response to intraocular syphilis; vigilance is required, particularly in high-risk patients.
Significant vitreous concentrations of TA are achieved after a single transseptal injection. Scleral thickness, depot location and time influence vitreous TA levels.
Intravitreal injection of bevacizumab and triamcinolone effectively treated idiopathic neuroretinitis.
All together, our findings show that AQP1 plays a role inside the cells through Lin-7/beta-catenin interaction. Such a role of AQP1 is the same in human melanoma and endothelial cells, suggesting that AQP1 plays a global physiological role. A model is presented.
The discovery of this novel PRL has revitalized our understanding on the evolution of the GH/PRL/SL/PL gene family. Its unique expression and functions in the zebrafish eye also provide a new avenue of research on the neuroendocrine control of retina development in vertebrates.
The overall percentage of deployed military personnel reporting at least one acute respiratory illness decreased since earlier parts of OIF/OEF. However, the reported effect on job performance increased tremendously. The most important factors associated with increased respiratory infection are female sex, Navy branch of service, lack of improved latrine facilities, deployment to OIF, increasing age and higher rank.
These studies provide explanation at the neural level regarding the relatively poor effects of L-Dopa on the cognitive deficits observed in PD.
These findings suggest that A-type potassium currents are essential for proper proliferation of immature multipotent hNPCs.
These data implicate hsa-miR-30b, hsa-miR-30d and KHDRBS3 as putative oncogenic target(s) of a novel recurrent medulloblastoma amplicon at 8q24.22-q24.23. Our findings suggest critical roles for these genes in medulloblastoma development, and further support the contribution of micro-RNA species to medulloblastoma pathogenesis.
The results suggest that flanking regions are relevant for linear motif-mediated interactions, both at the structural and sequence level. More interestingly, they indicate that the prediction of linear motif instances can be enriched with contextual information by performing a sequence analysis similar to the one presented here. This can facilitate the understanding of the role of these predicted instances in determining the protein function inside the broader context of the cellular network where they arise.
In community-dwelling older people, exercise attenuated the impact of age on mortality across all grades of frailty. Exercise conferred its greatest benefits to improvements in health status in those who were more frail at baseline. The net effect of exercise should therefore be to improve health status at the population level.
Taken together, these data form a time scale of the morphological and physiological rearrangements underlying EF-guided migration of osteoblast-like cell types and reveal a requirement for calcium in these reactions. We show for the first time here that dcEFs trigger different patterns of intracellular calcium elevation and positional shifting in osteogenic cell types that migrate in opposite directions.
The occurrence of Australovenator from the Aptian to latest Albian confirms the presence in Australia of allosauroids basal to the Carcharodontosauridae. These new taxa, along with the fragmentary remains of other taxa, indicate a diverse Early Cretaceous sauropod and theropod fauna in Australia, including plesiomorphic forms (e.g. Wintonotitan and Australovenator) and more derived forms (e.g. Diamantinasaurus).
Chronic deletion of Txnrd1 results in induction of the Nrf2 pathway, which contributes to an effective compensatory response.
It is concluded that the results obtained from host attraction studies indicate that dog is more attractive for P. orientalis than Egyptian mongoose, common genet and Nile rat.
He was subsequently discharged home and recovered uneventfully.
The timing, intensity, and duration of serum NSE and S-100B biomarker concentration patterns are associated with neurologic and survival outcomes following pediatric cardiac arrest. Serum NSE concentrations at &gt; or =48 hrs are associated with neurologic outcome, whereas serum S-100B levels at &gt; or =48 hrs are associated with survival. Prospective analysis of these markers may help to predict outcomes and guide postresuscitative therapies.
Although a rescue therapy component in a randomized trial may be perceived as ethically desirable, inconsistency of rescue therapy with full equipoise may itself raise significant ethical concerns. Increased sample sizes expose more children to the risks of study participation, including death. Researchers should be aware that clinical trials designed with rescue therapy cannot definitively determine the beneficial or harmful effects of a treatment per se, and can only assess the effects of delayed vs. immediate provision of the treatment.
Mechanical component failure over the course of this study was infrequent during neonatal and pediatric ECMO, and declined across eras as experience with the therapy grew. Increasing duration of ECMO was associated with an increasing probability of mechanical component failure. Indication for ECMO and patient age were also statistically associated with mechanical component failure probability, but ECMO center volume was not.
The management in a more aggressive center for children admitted to TRR and monitored for ICP, when indicated, is associated with a better outcome. This could be explained by a more extensive experience in trauma management.
Unscheduled medical admissions, presence of noncardiac comorbidities, extended device utilization, and specific medical therapies are independent risk factors for central line-associated BSI in patients receiving care in a pediatric cardiac intensive care unit.
The use of an enteral feeding algorithm is a safe and effective means of initiating and advancing enteral nutrition in infants with HLHS following stage I palliation.
Our findings demonstrated that cord blood IL-6, IL-10, and oxidative stress markers were significantly higher in infants with neonatal sepsis, and only TBARS levels were independently related to the development of neonatal sepsis in our sample.
Overall pediatric consent rates were 69.2% but varied by age. Eligible donors were found most often in hospitals with level I trauma programs or PCCM fellowship programs. Few hospitals had &gt;10 eligible donors in a 12-month period. This study is the first to describe in detail the U.S. pediatric donor population.
Estimation of Pflex can be achieved using automated P-V curves with ETTs appropriate for pediatric use, with and without an airleak. ETT size and flow rate affect the accuracy of these measurements when an airleak is present, and use of increased flow rates to create the automated P-V curves can reduce error. These data support the idea that a low-flow technique provides the most accurate determination of Pflex in pediatric patients without a leak around their ETT, whereas increased flows are needed to compensate when an ETT airleak is present.
IV LEV was effective in terminating status epilepticus or acute repetitive seizures and well tolerated in critically ill children. Further study is needed to elucidate the role of IV LEV in critically ill children.
Neurologic injury is a frequent complication in children undergoing E-CPR. Children with cardiac disease, less severe metabolic acidosis before ECMO, and an uncomplicated ECMO course have decreased odds of sustaining neurologic injury. Providing effective CPR and inclusion of brain protective therapies on ECMO should be considered in the future to improve neurologic outcomes for patients undergoing E-CPR.
The rate of VAP in pediatric trauma patients is substantially lower than in similar adults. Age older than 10 years, blunt trauma, head injury, and Injury Severity Score &gt;25 may be risk factors. VAP is not associated with increased mortality in pediatric trauma patients.
In critically ill children, drug use density of vancomycin is significantly less when evaluated by the DDD method compared with the prescribed daily dose method, a more appropriate method in children. However, the simplest and most accurate method of assessing drug use density is the number of days of drug use method, which allows comparison of drug use density between different pediatric facilities or clinical units.
This report describes the unusual presentation of severe cor pulmonale in an adolescent with so-called "late-onset" CCHS. CCHS was previously thought to be a disease affecting only neonates, but the late-onset phenotype has now been well described in adults. It should be considered in any child presenting with unexplained right heart failure without an identifiable cause, particularly if central sleep apnea is present, because early initiation of ventilatory support can prevent cardiac and neurologic sequelae and improve outcome.
Failure of adequate therapy for acute community-acquired pneumonia and rapid progression to respiratory failure should lead to the possibility of fungal etiology. Congenital immunodeficiency may present for the first time late in life, so acute invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in the absence of known risk factors should lead to consideration of chronic granulomatous disease regardless of patient age.
Side hole of an acutely placed multilumen catheter may be entrapped at the costoclavicular angle. An anatomically-based maneuver may widen the gap between the clavicle and the first rib and enable safe removal of the catheter.
Developments in the field and practice of pediatric neurocritical care continue with significant additions to the literature and practice recommendations concerning care following traumatic brain injury, cardiac arrest, status epilepticus, and cerebrovascular events. Importantly, the continued progression in knowledge raises the health services issue of whether, in certain settings of high clinical volume, it is time for specialized pediatric neurointensive care services or units.
The mean scores of PANSS, MADRS, Bf-S, SCL-90 and CGI-S at the end of study (week 16) showed significant improvements compared to the baselines (week 0) (p&lt;0.05). During the study, no extrapyramidal symptoms as well as akathisia were reported after quetiapine treatment. These preliminary data suggest that quetiapine might partially improve the cognitive functions in the context integration and target detection processing in these patients. This technical procedure (single-trial ERP) may help to differentially assess cognitive enhancements in each single patient under treatment.
These results indicate that psychiatrists tend to modify olanzapine dose according to treatment response. Dose increases seem to be associated with a better response to treatment and not with a worsening of side-effects.
Our data suggest that allelic variation at the COMT Val (158)Met locus may influence signal discrimination capacity in schizophrenia and confirm that Val loading, probably due to decreased prefrontal dopamine availability, is associated with greater cognitive flexibility, which in turn may influence other cognitive measures that have been associated with COMT to date.
The EMBLEM results support those of the RCT, which suggest that olanzapine monotherapy seems to be more effective than valproate monotherapy in the treatment of acute mania.
In adolescents with schizophrenia, aripiprazole augmentation of clozapine treatment might be an effective therapeutic strategy. Prospective studies for this age group are required to obtain more specific clinical data on clinical effectiveness.
Results suggest that no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction occurs when paroxetine and paliperidone ER are co-administered and, therefore, initiation or discontinuation of concomitant treatment with CYP2D6-inhibiting drugs does not appear to warrant an adjustment in paliperidone ER dosage.
Our approach as well as results can help to elucidate the genetic mechanism of idiopathic ASD.
MTHFR C677T is a risk factor, whereas MTRR A66G and SHMT C1420T polymorphisms reduce risk for autism. MTHFR A1298C acts additively in increasing the risk for autism.
Despite a low power, this study suggests a significant effect of 5-HTTLPR genotype on antidepressant efficacy in depressed women but not in men, with both SSRI and non-SSRI drugs. Further research is needed to confirm this result and investigate its underlying mechanisms.
Overall, we conclude that, in contrast with schizophrenia, common ROHs are rarely associated with susceptibility to bipolar disorder. This supports the idea that predominantly different genes are increasing susceptibility to schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorders.
It is unlikely that functional mutations in the GCLM gene could play a major role in genetic predisposition to schizophrenia and further studies will be required to assess its etiological function in the disease.
This research study may help raise awareness of stress and burnout and their relationship to the health of radiologic science educators.
The paper argues in favor of broad actions to increase women's autonomy both as an end and as a means to facilitate improved reproductive health outcomes. It also supports the call for more appropriate data that could further support this line of action. It highlights the need for efforts to improve households' livelihoods and increase girls' schooling to alter perceptions of the value of skilled maternal health care.
This prospective study has shown that in-office vitreous sampling of 50 microL to 100 microL is a safe and reproducible procedure. Larger randomized studies will be helpful to further assess the safety and long-term effects of in-office diagnostic vitreous sampling.
Both SNPs are significantly associated with exudative AMD in the Chinese cohort and seem to contribute equally to the disease status. A higher frequency of homozygous risk genotypes and risk haplotype and a lower frequency of protective haplotype in the Chinese may be the cause of higher prevalence of exudative AMD in the Chinese than in the whites.
The visual acuity after photodynamic therapy in AMD patients was maintained for 2 years after the initial treatment. Patients with AMD + PCV had stable visual outcome within 1 year but not after 1 year; there are risks of late recurrences and massive hemorrhages after 1 year in patients with AMD + PCV.
Whole genome sampling assay-based analysis of unilateral RB tumors revealed novel regions as significant. These minimum critical regions that are lost or amplified are expected to harbor genes that aid the process of tumorigenesis.
Although acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy shows a relatively benign prognosis, especially when compared with some of the other white dot syndromes, there are patients who experience incomplete visual recovery.
The IVI technique is a valuable tool that can be tailored to the disease process of interest based on the pharmacological agent selected. This review provides the reader with a comprehensive summary of the IVI technique and its multitude of uses.
Improvements in visual acuity and OCT outcomes were observed during the first year after intravitreal bevacizumab in patients with ME secondary to BRVO and HRVO.
Bevacizumab pretreatment for diabetic vitrectomy was not associated with any observed complications but did not influence rates of postoperative vitreous hemorrhage or final visual acuity in this retrospective series. The overall incidence of postoperative early vitreous hemorrhage in this series was 13% and seems lower than historically reported rates.
Treatment with intravenous low-dose rt-PA improved visual outcome in CRVO. Thrombolysis was not associated with a lower risk of ocular neovascularization, indicating that the mechanisms involved in this process occur at an early stage.
Intravitreal bevacizumab for macular edema determines significant early functional and anatomic improvements.
Sequenced combined treatment with single-session PDT and IVB injections may be useful in treating RAP, reducing or eliminating retinal edema, and improving or stabilizing visual acuity. Further investigations are warranted to outline the appropriate treatment paradigm for combination therapy.
There was no statistically significant change in the vertical C/D of optic nerves in patients receiving multiple intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF agents, regardless of whether they received fewer or more than five total injections. This suggests that the short-term intraocular pressure rise and frequent intraocular pressure fluctuation, as well as the anti-VEGF properties of these drugs, do not adversely change the optic nerve C/D. Additional prospective studies are warranted to confirm these conclusions.
Factor P was expressed in 50% of choroidal neovascular membranes of patients with AMD. The group with Factor P-positive membranes differed significantly from the Factor P-negative group in key clinical outcomes. Additional studies need to investigate the role of Factor P in the development of AMD for potential therapeutic intervention.
Compared with StratusOCT, the RTVue fourier-domain OCT yields greater retinal thickness measurements with greater reproducibility, presumably due to different segmentation algorithms, increased sampling density, and greater resolution. However, regional differences across the macula can be consistently observed with both devices.
The sawtooth pattern of drusen and the presence of excrescences along the detached outer retina are characteristic features of cuticular drusen that should be helpful in confirming the diagnosis of this condition. The volumetric analysis of the SRF is repeatable and may be useful in following the clinical course of these patients.
The reduction in the contour map area seen on PHP outputs occurs rapidly and correlates with the resolution of subretinal fluid, suggesting that this parameter may be used to monitor response to therapy.
Despite prompt treatment with appropriate antibiotics, the clinical outcome for Proteus species endophthalmitis is often poor.
Disruption of the inner/outer segment junction and a decrease in outer retinal thickness were found across the central hyperautofluorescent ring seen in retinitis pigmentosa. Outer segment phagocytosis by retinal pigment epithelium is necessary for the formation of an hyperautofluorescent ring.
Although the use of antivascular endothelial growth factor agents puts visual acuity in a zone more favorable for successful LV intervention, patients with better acuities may not be referred for LV evaluation despite their residual visual impairments and their scotomas, and despite the fact that without LV intervention, they are having difficulty with reading and other activities of daily living. The frequent visits required for monthly injection, the tendency to wait until a course of therapy is complete before referring patients, and a lesser appreciation for the need for LV intervention in patients with only moderate visual loss may be factors in explaining this.
The present study demonstrated, for the first time, that So Miguel, and possibly the Azores population, shows significant differences on allele frequencies of thrombotic risk factors when compared to mainland Portugal. This research constitutes a primary approach for future studies on CVD, as well as for the implementation of warfarin dosing protocols using the patient's genotypic information.
Total thyroidectomy seems advisable in PMC with extrathyroidal extension and neck lymph node metastasis at presentation. Capsular invasion without extrathyroidal extension may suggest aggressive tumor behavior and require radical treatment.
US-FNA of thyroid nodules in children and adolescents is highly accurate in experienced hands and is associated with a very low inadequate rate.
Irregular nodule margins, a usual sign of malignancy, are less useful in detecting thyroid cancers in radiation-exposed patients with tumors less than 10 mm. Thyroid cancers that are detected after longer latent periods display less of the US features characteristic of a malignant process, while benign US features are observed more frequently. Therefore, we recommend fine-needle aspiration biopsy to ensure early diagnosis of thyroid cancer for patients with a history of radiation exposure, even if their nodules are less than 10 mm.
Thyroid FNAB remains the screening tool of choice in the evaluation of thyroid nodules. However, the variability in the calculation of reported thyroid FNAB statistics highlights the need for uniformity in statistical reporting for accurate understanding of thyroid FNAB's clinical utility.
The intrathyroidal stromal microenvironments, particularly fibroblasts, appear to enhance the growth of thyroid carcinomas through soluble factor(s), which is modulated differently by high- and low-dose irradiation. To our knowledge this is the first study to show epithelial-stromal interaction in thyroid carcinoma.
These results suggest that glucocorticoids might directly suppress the D2 expression in rat VSMCs induced by a cAMP-dependent mechanism.
We hypothesize that the prevalence of FTC during the last decade in our center in Greece was very low due to correction of iodine deficiency and a relative increase in the prevalence of microPTC. More than 50% of PTC diagnosed during the last decade were microPTCs that were detected incidentally in older persons with preexisting MNG or a prominent hot nodule. This is one of the highest, if not the highest percentage of microPTCs that were incidentally detected. Despite many of these having features of invasiveness, most appear to remain clinically silent. Research is needed to identify factors predisposing microPTCs to evolve from a subclinical to a clinically apparent form.
Neither fluoxetine nor sertraline was associated with clinically significant changes in thyroid function or thyroid autoimmunity in either primary hypothyroid or normal thyroid function patients with depression. However, results suggest that patients with normal thyroid function who were treated with fluoxetine are more susceptible to minor changes within the serotoninergic system than patients with hypothyroidism on the same SSRI therapy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate the safety of administering SSRIs in hypothyroid patients.
This is the first study to provide pediatric reference intervals of FT(4) and FT(3) for children from birth to 18 years of age using LC/MS/MS. Analysis using LC/MS/MS provides more specific quantification of thyroid hormones. A comparison of the ultrafiltration tandem mass spectrometric method with equilibrium dialysis showed very good correlation.
Our findings indicate that current methods to precisely classify mutants with only a slight increase of the basal activity as constitutively active are limited. The results concerning the level of the basal activity can be influenced by the vector and/or the cell system. A comprehensive clinical characterization of the respective patients appears as a necessary and promising adjunct for the activity classification of these borderline mutations.
A 26-year-old woman presented with a rapidly growing anterior neck mass. A neck computed tomography scan showed a 3.5-cm left thyroid mass extending into the lateral neck. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy showed a malignant tumor. A subsequent core biopsy showed an undifferentiated epithelial carcinoma. A total thyroidectomy and left modified radical neck dissection were performed. Histopathology and immunohistochemical analysis confirmed an ATC. Postoperatively, the patient received radiation with concurrent chemotherapy. Serial follow-up imaging studies showed no evidence of residual or recurrent disease or metastases, and patient remains alive, free of disease, over 2 years.
ATC is usually a disease of the elderly but should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any patient who presents with a rapidly enlarging anterior neck mass. A rapid and thorough investigation should be initiated. This unusual case highlights that this aggressive thyroid cancer may occur in the young. It also emphasizes the role of aggressive surgery, if resectable.
Although there might be a limited impact of HLA matching on acute rejection and graft survival, many patients might be negatively impacted from poor HLA matching of their first kidney transplant when needing a second transplant. This might be particularly important in patients with a long life expectancy because of the high likelihood of needing a second transplant during their lifetime.
The HV1 sequence of mtDNA may serve as a marker for the level of diversity of mtDNA. These transplant data are consistent with the existence of mtDNA-encoded mitochondrial minor antigens with a level of diversity that can influence the outcome of renal transplantation.
These data demonstrate that TheraCyte encapsulation of allogeneic cells provides robust immune protection in transplanted rhesus monkeys.
Allogeneic transplantation of HSCs or MSCs alone could populate in the injured regions of the colons, both showed similar population ability in the colons of the TNBS-induced EC model rats. Combination transplantation of HSCs with MSCs could improve the gross morphologic scores of EC.
Adenosine suppresses the NKT cell-mediated IFN-gamma production of neutrophils in the liver of mice receiving islets, thus leading to prevention of early loss of transplanted syngenic and allogenic islets. The findings indicate that adenosine may improve efficiency of clinical islet transplantation.
Predisposition for type 2 DM can coexist with the type 1 DM phenotype and is associated with earlier decline in islet graft function. Prospective clinical trials should address whether it is associated with decreased insulin sensitivity and if insulin sensitizers play a role in prolonging islet graft survival.
Taken together, these findings suggest that the reduction in LPL activity, partly due to the decrease of plasma LPL concentration after TAC administration may be an explanation for hypertriglyceridemia observed in patients administered TAC.
Findings from this randomized, multicenter trial indicate that kidney function recovery, wound healing, efficacy, and tolerance are similar at 3 months posttransplant with immediate or DE in patients at protocol-specified risk of DGF.
These findings suggest that in an era where CMV prophylaxis is used routinely in D+R- transplants, the previously noted adverse effects of primary CMV infection on allograft and patient survival can be avoided (perhaps through a reduction in the incidence and/or severity of primary CMV infection), without using a CMV-matching allocation scheme.
The results of this study show that BKN is associated with TAC level and prednisone dose and not with MMF dose. This suggests that reducing TAC and prednisone dose and maintaining MMF may be a more appropriate initial approach for the treatment of BKN. Further studies are needed to compare the efficacy and safety of this approach with the currently recommended one.
Sustained BK viruria is a reliable marker allowing an early identification of patients at high risk of BKVAN development and therefore assure precocious therapeutic interventions.
Differences in listing practice exist between centers that cannot be explained by the patient case mix or center characteristics examined.
Despite the high variability of the results, transient elastography may be an efficient method for monitoring changes in dynamic liver stiffness in the early posttransplant period.
The accumulated experience indicates a reduction in the incidence of donor complications, especially for right lobe resection. One donor death and two cases of severe after effects related to liver donation have been reported during 18 years of living donor liver transplantation experience in Japan.
Concentration-controlled everolimus with reduced CsA results in similar renal function and equivalent efficacy compared with MMF with standard CsA at 12 months after cardiac transplantation.
Evaluation of global and EBV-specific T-cell immunity provides a rapid assessment of patients' immune competence. It is still unclear whether selective oversuppressed ATP release by CD4+ T cells reflects HVL patients at risk of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease. Further longitudinal studies will determine the importance of Immuknow test in identifying asymptomatic HVL patients vulnerable to EBV complications.
This was the first study assessing nonadherence to HS based on electronic monitoring in relation to long-term outcome after lung transplantation. Nonadherers showed decreased freedom from BOS in the largest sample to date, but did not impact survival.
PCP infections are rare in the modern era of prophylaxis; however, these infections are a serious risk factor for graft loss and patient death, in particular, in patients who are on sirolimus as part of the immunosuppressive regimen. The median time to development of PCP after transplant was 0.80+/-0.95 years, suggesting a longer period of PCP prophylaxis.
HTE is frequently ignored or incorrectly analyzed. An iterative process of exploratory analysis followed by confirmatory HTE analysis will generate the data needed to facilitate an individualized approach to evidence-based medicine.
These data suggest that the risk of febrile convulsion is increased in days 5-12 following vaccination with MMRV as compared to MMR+V given separately during the same visit, when post-vaccination fever and rash are also increased in clinical trials. While there was no evidence of an increase in the overall month following vaccination, the elevated risk during this time period should be communicated and needs to be balanced with the potential benefit of a combined vaccine.
Klassevirus 1 is a previously undescribed picornavirus that is globally widespread and present on at least three continents. Further investigations to determine whether klassevirus 1 is a human pathogen are needed.
Western medicine combined with SXC has long-lasting effects in lowering heart rate and blood pressure, especially for SBP and SBP load. SXC plus Western medicine also has an inhibition effect on morning surge in blood pressure.
Laparoscopic surgery for gastric cancer may cause high agglutination condition, which will increase the risk of deep vein thrombosis, and Xuesaitong Injection can improve this state.
Color Doppler ultrasound showed that the Chinese compound medicine for reinforcing qi, activating blood circulation, expelling phlegm and dredging collaterals has positive effects on lower limb arteriosclerosis.
The syndrome type distribution in women with menopause syndrome is complex, while the syndrome element distribution is simple. Generally, the syndrome type and syndrome element distributions during perimenopausal and postmenopausal periods are similar, but there are significant differences in some syndrome types and syndrome elements between the two periods. All of these can give support for revealing the distribution rule of the common syndrome types and syndrome elements and give a theoretical basis for clinical treatment of menopause syndrome.
Based on fMRI data, a kind of acupuncture point combination of SJ5 and GB34 within the hand-foot Shaoyang meridians, could improve the motor and sensory dysfunctions and equilibrium disturbance. The effect of combined acupuncture points was proved by cerebral activity initially.
Oxidative stress can negatively regulate the reproductive process, and the administration of high concentrations of BKT will largely retrieve the oxidative stress-induced reproductive defects in exposed nematodes.
The results suggest that all the ingredients are efficacious constituents of the formula, and paeoniflorin shows a dominant contribution to the formula. More information about prescription compatibility can be obtained by the orthogonal simulation method.
QSHYD can affect the ADP-FFA pathway by increasing the content of serum ADP, which may be one of its important mechanisms in preventing and treating NAFLD in rats.
The mechanism of Liangxue Jiedu Decoction in treating psoriasis may be related to promoting granular cell growth and inhibiting proliferation of epidermic cells.
Catechin can prevent the 5/6 nephrectomized rats from decreasing of MVD and inhibit the progress of glomerular sclerosis and interstitial fibrosis by inhibiting the activity of ACE and reducing the production of Ang II.
The information molecules in the perfusate from MPOA of rats in normal sexual cycle or electro-acupuncture-treated rats include classical neurotransmitters, amino acid neurotransmitters, and neuropeptides. Acupuncture may modulate the release and synthesis of these information molecules to normalize the subnormal function of MPOA in perimenopausal period. Thus, AP may be a neuroendocrine signal carrier of acupuncture effects for acupuncture signal transduction from one individual to another. This may provide a new thinking and method for studying acupuncture signal transduction of the acupuncture therapeutic effects on perimenopausal syndrome.
GFAP-delta expression patterns in HS overall appears to mirror regional reactive gliosis. It is a useful marker for the demonstration of balloon cells in FCD and TSC, which may be relevant to their abnormal size and localization. The lack of GFAP-delta within heterotopia supports their composition from cells destined for deeper cortical layers.
Our laparoscopic technique of Hartmann's procedure reversal is safe and efficient. It compares positively with the same procedure performed openly in a case control study. Moreover, an indirect cost reduction is generated by the reduction of the length of hospital stay.
These observations: (i) support the hypothesis of transneuronal spread of neurofibrillary changes from the DR to its interconnected cortical brain areas; and (ii) indicate that the supratrochlear subnucleus of the DR is affected by neurofibrillary changes before the transentorhinal cortex during the disease process underlying AD.
We have found adenovirus to be the most efficient of the vector systems tested for gene delivery to EPCs, an effect that is mediated almost entirely by one of two identified subpopulations.
These results offer insight into the psychological, behavioural and physical changes that may contribute to cardiovascular risk in bereavement.
An interesting picture has emerged regarding need for and use of mental health services. The burden of mental disorder is highest while service use was lower among Pacflc peoples generally Those born in or who migrated as children to New Zealand had higher levels of disorder but were also more likely to use services than older migrants.
There appears to be universalities in TBI experience and global rehabilitation outcomes that transcends individual cultures. However; there are micro-level cultural variations that have valuable implications when assessing and treating Pacific people in neuro-rehabilitation. Neuropsychologists need to take into account formal education levels and language abilities when working with Pacific people.
It is clear that there are a number of common underlying lifestyle issues that need to be considered when dealing with parenting problems in families with young children. However specific to Pacific families, is Tongan ethnicity accounting for a strong cultural effect on parenting style, in particular high discipline scores relative to other Pacific groups. This important finding may be used to guide social policy and prevention programmes that are focused on the wellbeing of Pacific mothers and their children.
Middle-aged and older Pacific adults are less likely to consume alcohol than Europeans however those who drink consume more on a typical occasion but drink less regularly resulting in lower weekly consumption of pure alcohol. Drinking patterns in these Pacific adults tend to show substantial diversity by age (older are less likely to drink), sex (women less likely to drink), and financial deprivation (middle groups consume more than least and most financially deprived). For Europeans a more homogenous drinking style prevailed by age, sex, and deprivation. Pacific drinkers were also approximately five times more likely to stop drinking compared to Europeans, citing family and social reasons as their main motivation for stopping drinking.
In spfte of high levels of disorder Cook Islanders have low use of specialist mental health services. The exception to this is an over-representation in inpatient and forensic services. This experience of mental health services at the extreme end implies delayed or avoided treatment that has resulted in more serious levels of disorder among those Cook Islanders who are eventually seen by mental health services.
In simulated cardiac arrest, the AED model demonstrated significantly improved t(defib) compared to the standard response for both training and combat settings.
at long-term follow-up, most military transtibial amputees experienced phantom sensation or some type of stump pain. More than half had persistent psychiatric problems, but only about half of these patients were receiving psychological treatment. Although this case series reports the status of these amputees, the next step would be to prospectively follow modern wartime amputees using standardized, validated outcome measures. With the goal of optimizing long-term amputee outcomes, researchers should correlate outcomes with demographics, injury characteristics, and treatments to identify and modify factors affecting the amputees' prognosis.
the medical structures deployed in a theater of operations were able to provide first treatment in ACS. The use of powerful diagnosis test, like troponine assay, must allow a better selection of the patients justifying a medical evacuation.
All dental practitioners require a knowledge of the management of specific medical emergencies.
Consistent and correct shade selection is fundamental to the placement of aesthetic restorations which are an essential part of everyday practice.
Local anaesthetics are routinely administered during many dental procedures. An understanding of the risks involved in these injections is important.
By thinking 'outside the box' clinicians may be able to use modern materials in unusual clinical situations.
Patients who use nicotine chewing gum should be advised that prolonged contact with the alveolar mucosa should be avoided. They should be told that regular chewing helps dispersal of the nicotine.
The prevalence of child sexual abuse (CSA) is surprisingly high, so adults who have experienced CSA can find it difficult to tolerate dental treatment, and may repeatedly cancel dental appointments or avoid dental treatment altogether.
Conventional overdenture retention can be enhanced by the use of dental magnets. Clinical procedures are straightforward and magnets offer a number of advantages over other forms of precision attachment.
TMJ dislocation is of relevance to all dental professionals because it can occur in the dental chair and because dental professionals are often called upon to manage this condition.
In patients with MDH, ASST proved to be frequently positive, as previously described for multiple NSAIDs intolerance. In ASST-positive subjects, the activity of several drugs appears to add up FceRI-specific autoantibodies in the induction of the release of allergic mediators.
no signficant improvement in air quality was observed after the enforcement of the Ecopass charging zone in Milan. In spite of their limitations, the present data confirm that small scale reductions in particle emissions are not sufficient to reach the goal of an improvement in air quality. Large scale, coordinated interventions on an inter-regional basis are envisioned.
following these results, we suggest to carry out a cohort incidence and mortality study to verify the potential role of occupational exposures on cancer mortality in men. We also recommend an in depth analysis in women to clarify the role of potential iron replacement by pollutants, such as cadmium and lead that are present in the area.
These findings confirmed that fairness of phenotype is associated in children with other skin cancer risk factors as well as ethnicity and parents' sun protection behavior.
This study found that stage, grade, age, and histology, but not sex was the significant prognostic indicators of death in five years.
HCC is a rare malignancy of thyroid. Genetic basis of familial HCC remains to be elucidated. Our case describes a rare familial occurrence of this malignancy and highlights the importance of obtaining a careful family history in management and surveillance of thyroid cancer.
In our study, patients with elevated troponins had a higher mortality. Hypertension (HTN) and Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) increased the risk of mortality in troponin positive patients. Several interventions were performed including medications, echocardiogram, and cardiology consultation. Treatment medications did not improve mortality rates.
The micro-leakage of GuttaFlow using a single cone technique is similar to that of GP using lateral condensation and less than that of GP using vertical condensation as used in this study.
When reinforcing PMMA resin with glass fibre, it is important to use the recommended P/L ratio. For unreinforced PMMA resin the P/L ratio can be changed within limits without adverse effects on the FS.
New intervention models that link health behavior information with screening messages in clinical settings may be important in reducing breast cancer risk and mortality.
African American women are at exceptional risk for CVD, and more recognition of this fact as well as greater awareness of the problem should be promulgated and distributed by means of public education programs. Physicians who treat black patients also need to be encouraged to be more aggressive in their efforts to detect patients at risk and to initiate therapy early on in the course of CVD in this sub-population.
Compliance with cervical cancer screening guidelines among Asian American women can be enhanced significantly by providing culturally and linguistically appropriate educational and early intervention programs.
Obese pregnant women may be placed on a healthy, well-balanced, monitored nutritional program during their antepartum course without adverse perinatal outcomes.
The perinatal mortality among the cesarean deliveries were 11.1%, and the main cause of death was severe birth asphyxia. Emergency cesarean section was more likely than elective to result in a perinatal loss. The indication with the poorest fetal outcome was prolonged obstructed labor.
Low prepregnancy BMI has similar effects on fetal survival in both blacks and whites except for late stillbirth. The underweight white survival advantage over blacks in late pregnancy could probably be due to greater access for identified white at-risk groups to effective obstetrical interventions as previously reported.
Calcium supplement use among African American women in this study was low. However, many of the barriers to calcium supplement use by African American women appear remediable through brief calcium intake counseling by their physician.
Obstetric fistula continues to show the deficiency in women's general health status occasioned by poor childbirth attendance in developing countries. Affected women suffer double jeopardy as a result of dearth of appropriate experts in fistula repair.
Culturally sensitive materials need to be designed and tested to improve blood pressure control. Community input regarding cultural issues is essential for designing effective and successful programs for reducing health disparities.
Leiomyomas of the uterus in women under 20 years of age are rare and occur much less often than adnexal lesions. Although ultrasound studies are usually sufficient to make the distinction between the 2, MRI generally is superior to sonography in this regard. In this young population, myomectomy is the surgical procedure of choice to preserve fertility.
The fryer chicken model is an advantageous, effective model of teaching chest tube placement.
These results suggest that LFT is a potentially useful hearing aid feature for school-age children with a precipitous HF sensorineural hearing loss.
The findings have implications for the reliability and validity of otoacoustic emissions. Clinicians should routinely calibrate otoacoustic emissions devices using 1.0 and 0.5 cc membranous cavities to rule out intermodulation distortion that could produce artifactual otoacoustic emissions in patients.
These findings suggest that the FST with and without head shake component is not a reliable screening tool for peripheral vestibular asymmetry in chronic dizzy patients; however, future research may hold promise for the FST as a tool for patients with acute unilateral disorders.
Tinnitus can be a significant problem following CI, but that the experienced distress is often moderate. However, a quarter of CI recipients do demonstrate moderate/severe tinnitus handicap, and thus are candidates for tinnitus specific therapy. The level of tinnitus handicap is associated with hearing problems and psychological distress.
We conclude that prefitting counseling can be advantageous to hearing aid outcome and recommend the addition of prefitting counseling to address expectations associated with quality of life and self-image. The data emphasize the need to address unrealistic expectations prior to fitting hearing aids cautiously, so as not to decrease expectations to the extent of discouraging and demotivating the patient. Data also show that positive expectations regarding the impact hearing aids will have on psychosocial well-being are important for successful hearing aid outcome.
The high proportion of CIN 3 lesions caused by HPV-16 and HPV-18 should further support the recent decision to include the prophylactic vaccination against HPV in the national vaccination program in Slovenia.
Relationships have been found to exist between the patient's mental health and both their subjective assessment of life quality and self-image. Taking into account the role of mental health as a potential determinant of quality of life among dermatology patients, and considering the strong correlation between self-acceptance and well-being, treatment should also focus on counseling.
In spite of prophylactic advice regarding lymphangitis and erysipelas during treatment for lymphedema after breast-cancer therapy, patients are subject to complications; however, this in itself does not justify the use of prophylactic antibiotic therapy.
Few public health schools and programs require graduate courses in ethics and law. Most MPH graduates report being prepared to address public health challenges. Additional research is necessary to improve techniques for measuring preparedness.
Increases in alcohol excise tax rates were associated with immediate and sustained reductions in alcohol-related disease mortality in Alaska. Reductions in mortality occurred after 2 tax increases almost 20 years apart. Taxing alcoholic beverages is an effective public health strategy for reducing the burden of alcohol-related disease.
Despite recent declines in cigarette use, the prevalence of nicotine dependence has increased among some groups and has remained steady overall, which may be hampering public health initiatives to reduce cigarette use. Efforts to study or curb cigarette use should therefore take nicotine dependence into account.
The effects of failure to retain hard-to-reach respondents are not predicable based on respondent characteristics. Retention of these respondents should be a priority in public health research.
Results indicate a high and rising prevalence of anti-TB drug resistance among children in the Western Cape, which suggests ongoing transmission of drug-resistant strains within the community. Improved control of TB in adults, including early identification and treatment of drug-resistant cases, is necessary to reduce transmission to children.
Our findings highlight the need for improved planning for care of evacuee populations after a major emergency event and the importance of ensuring continuity of care for the most vulnerable. We provide an emergency response preparedness checklist for local public health departments.
Higher rates of fatal occupational injury were associated with a state policy climate favoring business over labor, with distinct regional clustering of such state policies in the South and Northeast.
Researchers, community spokespersons, and institutional review boards constitute organizational groups with strong internal ties and highly developed cultures. Few cross-linkages and little knowledge of each other cause significant distortion of information and other forms of miscommunication between groups. Our data suggest that organizations designed to protect human volunteers are in the best position to take the lead in implementing community review.
Early education reduces health behavioral risk factors by enhancing educational attainment, health insurance coverage, income, and family environments. Further follow-up will be needed to determine the long-term health effects of PPP.
Family homelessness affects a substantial minority of fifth-grade children and may have an impact on their emotional, developmental, and behavioral health.
SHS-induced heart disease and lung cancer will cause an estimated 6 Pennsylvania casino workers' deaths annually per 10,000 at risk, 5-fold the death rate from Pennsylvania mining disasters. Casinos should not be exempt from smoke-free workplace laws.
Risk-related behaviors were substantially reduced for students who participated in the program, providing evidence that a comprehensive school-based program can have a strong beneficial effect on student behavior.
Adolescents in foster care are at considerable risk of homelessness. Preventive initiatives can reduce homelessness in this population by implementing improved foster care programming and developing empirically informed interventions targeting foster care adolescents.
Sickness absence records may help identify workers vulnerable to future depression.
Mobility and migration are important factors in identifying and treating TB patients diagnosed in the US-Mexico border region. Strengthening capacity on both sides of the border to identify, monitor, and treat TB is a priority.
Correlates of incarceration differed by gender, and patterns of housing instability differentially affected incarceration for men and women. Policies to improve housing options and drug treatment for the urban poor are critical to breaking the cycle of incarceration and homelessness and improving health outcomes.
Combined attacks by Sudanese government forces and Janjaweed militia forces led to racial epithets being used more often during sexual victimization in Darfur. Our results suggest that the Sudanese government is participating in the use of sexual assault as a racially targeted weapon against ethnically African civilians.
Our findings underscore the notion that individual differences salient in the education system (e.g., learning disabilities, school dropout) need to be integrated into conceptual models of injury risk among young workers.
High levels of job strain during early pregnancy are associated with reduced birthweight and an increased risk of delivering an SGA infant, particularly if mothers work 32 or more hours per week.
Mass transit noise exposure has the potential to exceed limits recommended by the World Health Organization and the US Environmental Protection Agency and thus cause noise-induced hearing loss among riders of all forms of mass transit given sufficient exposure durations. Environmental noise-control efforts in mass transit and, in cases in which controls are infeasible, the use of personal hearing protection would benefit the ridership's hearing health.
In conclusion, febrile temperature was capable of markedly inhibiting the growth of field isolate P. falciparum while the development, reinfection rate and drug (chloroquine, mefloquine and quinine) resistant level of standard strain K1 was enhanced. However, the febrile temperature coped with chloroquine had no effect to the development, drug sensitivity and the parasite number of K1 strain. In the opposite way, heat shock and chloroquine showed extremely effect toward 3D7 and field isolate PF91 as shown by some died parasites. Heat shock protein 70 (pfHSP70) of strain K1 under heat shock with chloroquine might involved in many pathways in order to sustain the parasite.
The isolation of an antimicrobial compound from M. longifolia leaves validates the use of this plant in the treatment of minor sore throat and minor mouth or throat irritation.
This study confirms the high rate of ESBL in K pneumoniae clinical isolates in hospitals in Riyadh. This study demonstrates the worldwide spread of bla(CTX-M) genes. This first report of the presence of the bla(CTX-M) gene in clincial isolates in Saudi Arabia is evidence of the continuing worldwide spread of this gene.
A heuristic mining methodology that resembles a clustering motivation is proposed in this paper. However, there remains a basic difference between the mining method and a clustering approach. The heuristic approach can produce priority modules (PM) from an miRNA co-expression network, by employing a self-pruning phase, which are analyzed for statistical and biological significance. The mining algorithm minimizes the space/time complexity of the analysis, and also handles noise in the data. In addition, the mining method reveals promising results in the unsupervised analysis of TF-miRNA regulation.
We demonstrate that our method is robust and achieves maximal theoretical power since it accommodates uncertainty when copy number status are inferred. We have made R functions freely available.
A computer program detecting the minimum number of SNPs for haplotype discrimination and subsequent genotype differentiation has been developed, and its performance compared to other relevant software. The main advantages of PolyMin, especially for plant scientists, is the integration of procedures from sequence analysis to polymorphism selection within a single program, including both haplotype and genotype differentiation.
This study reveals that many more genes than previously suspected affect aggressive behavior, and that these genes have widespread pleiotropic effects. Given the conservation of aggressive behavior among different animal species, these are novel candidate genes for future study in other animals, including humans.
Using the MAQC metrics for evaluating the performance of gene expression platforms, the ExpressSeq results for gene expression levels showed excellent reproducibility, sensitivity, and specificity that improved systematically with increasing shotgun sequencing depth, and quantitative accuracy that was comparable to DNA microarrays and QRTPCR. In addition, a careful mapping of the reads to the genome using the AceView alignment programs shed new light on the complexity of the human transcriptome including the discovery of thousands of new splice variants.
The study supports the importance of contact tracing in remote settings with high TB prevalence. Suggestions to improve the children's detection rate, the use of existing guidelines, chemoprophylaxis of contact-children and the available interventions in Laos are discussed. Improving education and awareness of the infectiousness of TB in patients is urgently needed to reduce TB transmission.
Our data do not support a direct role for alterations in the tcdC gene as a predictor of hyperproduction of Toxin A and B in NAP1-related strains.
Graduates from each of the medical schools in the UK do show differences in performance in the MCQ section of the primary FRCA, but significant curriculum change does not lead to deterioration in post graduate examination performance. Whilst females now outnumber males taking the MCQ, they are not performing as well as the males.
The MII should complement the use of h-index when comparing the research output of institutions of disparate sizes. It has a conceptual interpretation and, with the data provided here, can be computed for the total research output as well as for field-specific publication sets of institutions in biomedicine.
This trial will utilise high quality trial methodologies in accordance with CONSORT guidelines. Findings from this study will assist in the development of evidence based practice recommendations and potentially the optimisation of resource allocation for rehabilitating lateral epicondylalgia.
The pontine infarction may present as PMH or hemiplegia with more frequency of nonvertiginous dizziness, a progressive course and diabetes mellitus. MRI can confirm the infarct location in the basal pons at early stage after stroke onset.
We conclude that exogenously supplied CO during the prenatal period promotes oxidative stress as indicated by the up-regulation of SOD-1, SOD-2, HO-1, Ferritin-H, and iNOS with increased nitrotyrosine in the rat cerebella suggesting that deleterious and protective mechanisms were activated. These changes correlate with reductions of proteins important to cerebellar function: pre-synaptic terminals proteins (synapsin-1), proteins for the maintenance of neuronal size, shape and axonal quality (neurofilaments) and protein involved in GABAergic neurotransmission (GAD). Increased GFAP immunoreactivity after prenatal CO-exposure suggests a glial mediated response to the constant presence of CO. There were differential responses to prenatal vs. postnatal CO exposure: Prenatal exposure seems to be more damaging; a feature exemplified by the persistence of markers indicating oxidative stress in pups at P20, following prenatal only CO-exposure. The continuation of this cellular environment up to day 20 after CO exposure suggests the condition is chronic. Postnatal exposure without prenatal exposure shows the least impact, whereas prenatal followed by postnatal exposure exhibits the most pronounced outcome among the groups.
Turning the traditional referral system on its head by providing unsolicited, risk driven nephrology consultations is an effective strategy for increasing the quality of medical management of patients with chronic kidney disease in the primary care setting and improving the cost effective use of nephrology services. This approach may be broadly applicable to other specialty areas.
The present findings are in support of the notion of weakened capture of auditory attention in dyslexia, allowing for a possible impairment in the dynamics that link attention with short memory, suggested by the anchoring-deficit hypothesis.
Vitiligo causes substantial disease burden as reflected by QoL impairment and high WTP, especially in women. These results should draw the attention of physicians to this disease, as appropriate education and treatment are likely to improve the QoL of patients with vitiligo and may support patients' compliance and empowerment.
This new ECP system provides lower extracorporeal volumes, faster treatment times, and flexibility to use either single- or dual-needle access, while not being associated in this study with any ADEs, and therefore having a positive benefit-risk ratio for patients with CTCL.
Subjective as well as objective factors should be included in the assessment of disease severity and follow-up of patients with vitiligo. A simple perceived severity scale is useful in clinical practice.
Borrelia afzelii seems to be the predominant species of Borrelia responsible for BL in France, as already reported in other European countries.
Pain and inconvenience are practical barriers to the use of conventional PDT. This pilot study suggests that OLED-PDT is less painful than conventional PDT with the added advantage of being lightweight, and therefore has the potential for more convenient 'home PDT'. These results need to be validated in larger studies.
Patients with AE exhibit enhanced expression of LL-37 in lesional skin compared with nonlesional, suggesting a role of LL-37 in AE that might be associated with the process of re-epithelialization.
All the measurements were performed in backscattering geometry and demonstrated that nonlinear spectral imaging has the ability to differentiate hypertrophic scar tissue from normal skin based on noninvasive SHG imaging, and TPEF imaging revealed the microstructure and spectral features of collagen and elastin fibres. With the advances in spectral imaging apparatus miniaturization, we have good reason to believe that this approach can become a valuable tool for the in vivo pathophysiology study of human skin hypertrophic scars and for assessing the treatment responses of this disfiguring disease in clinic. It can also be used to track the development of hypertrophic scars and to study wound healing processes in a noninvasive fashion without biopsy, fixation, sectioning and the use of exogenous dyes or stains.
This pilot study suggests that normal human scalp HF epithelium possesses a functional antimicrobial defence system, which includes the AMPs RNase 7 and psoriasin, and TLRs, and that these are induced by classical microbial products.
The results of the present study suggest that TRAF1, MUM1, BCL2 and CD15 cannot be considered as useful diagnostic or prognostic marker in cutaneous CD30-positive lymphoproliferations. Differentiation between these different conditions should be based on a combination of clinical, histological and immunophenotypical criteria.
Our results suggest that the well-documented structural and promoter polymorphisms of the MBL2 gene may not be associated with generalized vitiligo in the Gujarat population.
The glabellar frown lines scale is a reproducible tool for assessment of the severity of facial wrinkling. The other scales should be redefined to improve their reproducibility, and therefore their quality, in future studies.
A wide spectrum of betaPV types was detected in our samples. Further characterization of betaPV in vivo is needed in order to determine the mechanisms by which the virus contributes to cutaneous carcinogenesis.
We report increased serine protease activities in acute eczematous AD, especially in deeper layers of the SC, including SC tryptase-like enzyme, plasmin, urokinase and leucocyte elastase activities. These elevations in protease activities were associated with impaired barrier function, irritation, and reduced skin capacitance. Increased SC cohesion was apparent despite elevated TEWL during tape stripping, which would indicate reduced SC thickness in acute eczematous lesions of AD. Indeed, this was observed using an estimate of SC thickness.
In Israel, primary CBCL apparently occurs more often in young patients than reported in the literature. CMZL is the most frequent type. Long follow up is mandatory to assess the biological behaviour of CBCL in the paediatric/adolescent age group.
A once-daily combination of calcipotriol plus betamethasone dipropionate was significantly more effective and better tolerated than twice-daily calcipotriol scalp solution in the treatment of scalp psoriasis.
Ichthyosiform eruptions are often associated with ALCL and MF and can be classified into three groups: AI associated with ALCL and MF expressing CD30, IMF, and their overlap.
Trainees appreciate the formative benefits which derive from the assessments, namely feedback, reassurance of satisfactory performance and, in the case of DOPS and mini-CEX, additional one-to-one training from consultants. Some problems came to light. The issues raised will not be unique to dermatology and other specialties should take note.
The overall magnitude of the T-cell reactivity to nickel and the patch test reactivity are closely associated but fluctuations in the systemic T-cell reactivity cannot be singled out as the major cause of longitudinal variability in nickel patch test reactivity.
Currently, early recognition of the disease seems to be the only method of ensuring overall survival. However, evidence-based treatment modalities are still urgently needed.
One-third of primary schoolchildren have warts. This study does not find support for generally accepted wart prevention recommendations, such as wearing protective footwear in communal showers and swimming pool changing areas. Rather, recommendations should focus on ways to limit the transmission of wart viruses within families and school classes.
In line with trends observed in Danish patients with dermatitis, our results supported a recent decrease in the prevalence of FM I and MP sensitization in Denmark. The study also showed that fragrance sensitization was associated with self-reported cosmetic dermatitis and use of health care related to cosmetic dermatitis.
This study presents a strong case for dermatologists to continue to provide the lead in diagnosis of skin lesions, and in selection and execution of dermatological surgical procedures.
These results demonstrate that TNF-alpha upregulated malignant melanoma migration in vitro and that this could be reduced by ibuprofen both in solution and delivered from a hydrogel. These effects of ibuprofen cannot be attributed simply to induction of apoptosis.
While the results seem to suggest that the organizational structure of a given cancer center does not impact the amount of NCI funding or number of HHMI investigators which it attracts, the existence of this relationship is likely masked by the small sample size in this study. Further studies may be appropriate to examine the effect organizational structure has on other measurements which are relevant to cancer centers, such as quality and quantity of research produced.
The present study provided valid evidence of integration of rat allogeneic tumor-derived mRNA and autologous DCs through electroporation and confirmed this novel tumor vaccine have the potential to induced osteosarcoma-specific CTL response and reject osteosarcoma challege. This technique and its products may thus represent a promising strategy for DC-based immunotherapy of patients with osteosarcoma.
Drug resistance emerges at a higher rate in influenza A subtype H1N1 virus than in influenza A subtype H3N2 or influenza B virus after tiered weight-based oseltamivir therapy. Virological surveillance for patterns of drug resistance is essential for determination of antiviral treatment strategies and for composition of pandemic preparedness stockpiles.
In individuals initiating chronic hemodialysis, low baseline levels of hCAP18, a vitamin D-regulated antimicrobial protein, are independently associated with an increased risk of death attributable to infection.
The small sample precludes conclusions about noninferiority of nitazoxanide to vancomycin. Nevertheless, this is the first recent randomized controlled trial to compare any antimicrobial agent other than metronidazole with vancomycin. Results suggest that nitazoxanide may be as effective as vancomycin in treating CDI.
Breast-feeding is protective against H. pylori infection, especially in middle- and low-income nations.
Exposure to sdNVP in the prior 18-36 months was not associated with a reduced likelihood of achieving and sustaining viral suppression while receiving NNRTI-based therapy. However, women with minority K103N mutations before treatment had a reduced durability of virologic suppression.
Rifampin resistance is common among epidemic clone C. difficile isolates at our institution. Exposure to rifamycins before the development of C. difficile-associated disease was a risk factor for rifampin-resistant C. difficile infection. The use of rifaximin may be limited for treatment of C. difficile-associated disease at our institution.
The predictive rule to identify severe CAP is accurate for ICU admission and improved the prediction of mortality, compared with the previous American Thoracic Society guidelines. The need for ICU admission derived from minor severity criteria alone is uncertain and deserves further investigation.
HIV-2-infected individuals treated with ARV therapy in Senegal commonly have HIV-2 mutations consistent with multiclass drug resistance. Additional clinical studies are required to improve the efficacy of primary and salvage treatment regimens for treating HIV-2 infection.
For the dosage schedule used in our study, oral ribavirin has no effect in reducing early mortality associated with Japanese encephalitis.
Recipients of MBL-deficient livers have almost a 3-fold greater likelihood of developing CSI and may benefit from MBL replacement.
Common community-acquired human drug-resistant infections are caused by bacterial strains that harbor mobile drug resistance determinants of identical sequences that are found in diverse bacterial species from varied animal sources worldwide.
OraQuick may be less sensitive than enzyme immunoassays during early HIV infection. NAAT should be integrated into HIV testing programs that serve populations that undergo frequent testing and that have high rates of HIV acquisition, particularly if rapid HIV antibody testing is employed. Antigen-antibody combination assays may be a reasonably sensitive alternative to HIV NAAT.
The odds of severe hypo- and hyperglycemia were significantly greater with gatifloxacin and levofloxacin, but not ciprofloxacin, than with azithromycin. Thus, the risk of a clinically relevant dysglycemic event appears to vary among the fluoroquinolones.
HIV, malnutrition and IBI are biologically associated with severe disease due to falciparum malaria rather than being simply alternative diagnoses in co-incidentally parasitized children in an endemic area.
Differences in severity among STEC infections could not be explained by stx2, suggesting that additional factors are important in STEC virulence.
Systematic review of historical literature enables rational noninferiority margin justification in the absence of placebo-controlled trials and may facilitate regulatory review of noninferiority trials. Noninferiority margins of 14% for cellulitis/erysipelas, 21% for wound/ulcer infections, and 7% for major abscesses would preserve &gt;or= 50% of antibiotic efficacy versus placebo for these complicated SSSI subsets.
This clinical score, based on readily available and objective variables, provides a useful tool to predict bacteremia. The score has been internally and externally validated and may be useful to guide diagnostic decisions for community-acquired pneumonia.
The biologist likely acquired pneumonic plague through inhalation of aerosols generated during postmortem examination of an infected mountain lion. Enhanced awareness of zoonotic diseases and appropriate use of personal protective equipment are needed for biologists and others who handle wildlife.
Linezolid-based salvage therapy effectively eradicated S. aureus from the blood for patients with persistent MRSA bacteremia. The salvage success rate was higher for linezolid therapy than for vancomycin-based combination therapy.
Immunological monitoring as a sole indicator of virological failure would lead to a premature switch to valuable second-line regimens for 58% of patients who experience a 25% decrease in CD4 cell count and for 43% patients who experience a 50% decrease in CD4 cell count, and therefore this type of monitoring should be reevaluated. Selective virological monitoring and the addition of indicators like trends CD4% percent decrease and duration of therapy may systematically improve the identification of treatment failure. VL testing is now mandatory for patients suspected of experiencing first-line treatment failure within the Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare (AMPATH) in western Kenya, and should be considered in all resource-limited settings.
Anti-HIV and -HCV therapy should be considered early in cases of concomitant acute HCV and HIV coinfection, because successful therapy of HCV viremia seems possible even during primary HIV infection. HCV-specific T cell immunity is generated during primary HIV infection and can be preserved by HCV treatment. However, the optimal treatment algorithm needs to be established in prospective, randomized trials.
E. histolytica can be transmitted by heterosexual activity as well as male and female homosexual activity. Patients with amebiasis should be counselled about possible sexual transmission.
This real-time PCR assay is a highly accurate test to identify intrapartum GBS carriers at point of care. This new tool could enhance the exact identification of candidates for intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis, including women with preterm rupture of membranes or preterm labor.
Nosocomial transmission of GAS from a patient to a health care worker who developed streptococcal toxic shock syndrome may have occurred after the index patient had received 48 h of antibiotic therapy and despite placement in contact isolation. Isolation guidelines for patients with severe GAS infection may need to be reviewed.
More than one-half of the children with Hib vaccine failure had antibody concentrations below those considered to confer long-term protection, which suggests that these children might be at further risk of invasive Hib disease and would benefit from another dose of Hib vaccine.
In this case series of patients who ingested identified muscarine-containing mushrooms supportive treatment and atropine resulted in recovery in all cases.
Our data suggest that clonidine may be a reasonable alternative to more traditional agents used to prevent or treat NAS. We agree with the statement of the American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Drugs that states that larger trials and pharmacologic data are needed before the routine use of clonidine can be recommended.
In this model of acute cocaine toxicity, olanzapine pretreatment attenuated acute cocaine toxicity. Olanzapine should be evaluated further as a potential treatment for acute cocaine poisoning.
Paracetamol pack size limitation as applied in the United Kingdom has not reduced paracetamol-related death. Reasons postulated for this failure include patient avoidance of the legislation's intentions, patient confusion, and ineffectiveness of the regulations as conceived and implemented.
If there had been a real-time surveillance program using poison center data, the outbreak would have been identified 1 month before the initial postmortem reports to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at the end of April 2006. Poison center data provide the potential for an earlier warning system than postmortem data sources, because the reports are usually made within hours of the exposure. Poison center data can be effectively used to monitor heroin-related exposures.
Chronic cannabis use is associated with psychiatric, respiratory, cardiovascular, and bone effects. It also has oncogenic, teratogenic, and mutagenic effects all of which depend upon dose and duration of use.
DEG ingestion can lead to serious complications that may prove fatal. Prognosis may be improved, however, with prompt supportive care and timely use of fomepizole or ethanol.
The best reactivation ability was achieved with obidoxime, trimedoxime, compounds K027, K075, K203, and K048. We have also tested reactivation of butyrylcholinesterase with the aim to recommend an efficient reactivator, able to perform a "pseudo catalytic" bioscavenger with butyrylcholinesterase, which is developed as new antidote of organophosphate poisonings. Such combination could allow an enhancement of prophylactic and therapeutic efficiency of administered enzyme. Compounds K117, K269, K075, and trimedoxime were found to be the most potent reactivators of inhibited butyrylcholinesterase.
In this work, we have evaluated only reactivation of paraoxon-inhibited cholinesterases. To get better understanding of this problem, a larger number of organophosphorus inhibitors should be used.
The results of this analysis emphasize the severity of underage alcohol consumption by young people in the Slovak Republic. Measures are needed to decrease alcohol abuse in children and adolescents.
The patients using psychoactive plant materials were mainly young and commonly used the Internet for drug acquisition. Having access to bioanalytical methods for detection of plant-derived psychoactives is therefore considered important, when providing clinical toxicology service.
Acute aripiprazole poisonings most commonly result in sedation, sinus tachycardia, nausea/vomiting, or dystonic reactions. Symptoms are more likely with doses above 90 mg, although pediatric patients can be affected at a lower dose.
Findings support the need for communication training for SPIs and provide an empirical basis for setting priorities in developing training units.
To our knowledge, this is the first published case of nonradioactive cesium poisoning treated with Prussian blue. A transient rise in serum cesium level was observed during Prussian blue therapy. Possible explanations for this observation include poor drug compliance during outpatient treatment and redistribution of cesium from body stores.
Nonradioactive CsCl poisoning can result in severe cardiotoxicity with QT prolongation and TDP ventricular tachycardia. The key points in the management of nonradioactive cesium poisoning include cessation of cesium exposure, vigorous electrolytes replacement, and oral Prussian blue therapy.
Exposure to irritant gases such as sulfuric acid and sulfur dioxide can cause severe pulmonary injury leading to pneumothorax and pneumomediastinum.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of SS after sibutramine overdose in a child, with sequential monitoring of the plasma levels of the drug and its two active metabolites. The growing consumption of weight reducing pills may increase the risk of unintentional acute toxic exposures in children.
Receptor binding may help confirm diagnosis and elucidate mechanisms in this type of exposure.
Routine 'active management' is superior to 'expectant management' in terms of blood loss, post partum haemorrhage and other serious complications of the third stage of labour. Active management is, however, associated with an increased risk of unpleasant side effects (eg nausea and vomiting), and hypertension, where ergometrine is used. Active management should be the routine management of choice for women expecting to deliver a baby by vaginal delivery in a maternity hospital. The implications are less clear for other settings including domiciliary practice (in developing and industrialised countries).
In this updated review, we found five studies (four new studies) that met the inclusion criteria. The review suggests that practice-based IPC interventions can improve healthcare processes and outcomes, but due to the limitations in terms of the small number of studies, sample sizes, problems with conceptualising and measuring collaboration, and heterogeneity of interventions and settings, it is difficult to draw generalisable inferences about the key elements of IPC and its effectiveness. More rigorous, cluster randomised studies with an explicit focus on IPC and its measurement, are needed to provide better evidence of the impact of practice-based IPC interventions on professional practice and healthcare outcomes. These studies should include qualitative methods to provide insight into how the interventions affect collaboration and how improved collaboration contributes to changes in outcomes.
There is no clear evidence that elective HFOV offers important advantages over CV when used as the initial ventilation strategy to treat preterm infants with acute pulmonary dysfunction. There may be a small reduction in the rate of CLD with HFOV use, but the evidence is weakened by the inconsistency of this effect across trials and the overall borderline significance. Future trials on elective HFOV should target those infants who are at most risk of CLD (extremely preterm infants), compare different strategies for generating HFOV and CV, and report important long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes.
The available data cannot exclude important beneficial or harmful effects and are insufficient to inform clinical practice. Further large pragmatic randomised controlled trials are needed to determine how early trophic feeding compared with enteral fasting affects important clinical outcomes in VLBW infants.
There is insufficient evidence from randomised trials to determine which method of treatment is the most appropriate for isolated fractures of the ulnar shaft in adults. Well designed and reported randomised trials of current forms of conservative treatment are recommended.
This review confirms the benefit of adding radiotherapy to breast conserving surgery for the treatment of all women diagnosed with DCIS. No long-term toxicity from use of radiotherapy was identified.
Using corticosteroids to prevent (or treat) stridor after extubation has not proven effective for neonates or children. However, given the consistent trends towards benefit, this intervention does merit further study, particularly for high risk children or neonates. In adults, multiple doses of corticosteroids begun 12-24 hours prior to extubation do appear beneficial for patients with a high likelihood of post extubation stridor.
Smoking cessation interventions in pregnancy reduce the proportion of women who continue to smoke in late pregnancy, and reduce low birthweight and preterm birth. Smoking cessation interventions in pregnancy need to be implemented in all maternity care settings. Given the difficulty many pregnant women addicted to tobacco have quitting during pregnancy, population-based measures to reduce smoking and social inequalities should be supported.
Point of care computer reminders generally achieve small to modest improvements in provider behaviour. A minority of interventions showed larger effects, but no specific reminder or contextual features were significantly associated with effect magnitude. Further research must identify design features and contextual factors consistently associated with larger improvements in provider behaviour if computer reminders are to succeed on more than a trial and error basis.
Prophylaxis of leptospirosis may be achieved by administration of doxycycline to soldiers training in endemic areas with a high risk of exposure to leptospirosis. Whether these findings apply to other scenarios or not remains to be proven.
Patient decision aids increase people's involvement and are more likely to lead to informed values-based decisions; however, the size of the effect varies across studies. Decision aids have a variable effect on decisions. They reduce the use of discretionary surgery without apparent adverse effects on health outcomes or satisfaction. The degree of detail patient decision aids require for positive effects on decision quality should be explored. The effects on continuance with chosen option, patient-practitioner communication, consultation length, and cost-effectiveness need further evaluation.
The very substantial amount of high quality evidence demonstrates that ibuprofen is an effective analgesic in treating postoperative pain. NNTs for 200 mg and 400 mg ibuprofen did not change significantly from the previous review even when a substantial amount of new information was added. New information is provided on remedication.
First-line low-dose thiazides reduce all morbidity and mortality outcomes. First-line ACE inhibitors and calcium channel blockers may be similarly effective but the evidence is less robust. First-line high-dose thiazides and first-line beta-blockers are inferior to first-line low-dose thiazides.
Reducing protein intake in patients with chronic kidney disease reduces the occurrence of renal death by 32% as compared with higher or unrestricted protein intake. The optimal level of protein intake cannot be confirmed from these studies.
Though promising, the data were not strong enough to make a general recommendation to use Oscillococcinum for first-line treatment of influenza and influenza-like syndromes. Further research is warranted but the required sample sizes are large. Current evidence does not support a preventative effect of Oscillococcinum-like homeopathic medicines in influenza and influenza-like syndromes.
Buprenorphine is more effective than clonidine or lofexidine for the management of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine may offer some advantages over methadone, at least in inpatient settings, in terms of quicker resolution of withdrawal symptoms and possibly slightly higher rates of completion of withdrawal.
There is insufficient evidence to determine whether adjunctive steroid use in HELLP syndrome decreases maternal and perinatal mortality, major maternal and perinatal morbidity.
There is evidence that statin therapy in patients with a history of ischaemic stroke or TIA significantly reduces subsequent major coronary events but only marginally reduces the risk of stroke recurrence. There is no clear evidence of beneficial effect from statins in those with previous haemorrhagic stroke and it is unclear whether statins should be started immediately post stroke or later. In view of this and the evidence of the benefit of statin therapy in those with a history of CHD, patients with ischaemic stroke or TIA, with or without a history of established CHD, should receive statins.
Methadone is an effective maintenance therapy intervention for the treatment of heroin dependence as it retains patients in treatment and decreases heroin use better than treatments that do not utilise opioid replacement therapy. It does not show a statistically significant superior effect on criminal activity or mortality.
This review provides evidence that PRT is an effective intervention for improving physical functioning in older people, including improving strength and the performance of some simple and complex activities. However, some caution is needed with transferring these exercises for use with clinical populations because adverse events are not adequately reported.
Single dose oxycodone is an effective analgesic in acute postoperative pain at doses over 5 mg; oxycodone is two to three times stronger than codeine. Efficacy increases when combined with paracetamol. Oxycodone 10 mg plus paracetamol 650 mg provides good analgesia to half of those treated, comparable to commonly used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, with the benefit of longer duration of action.
There is insufficient information available from clinical trials to support the use of mifepristone to induce labour. However, the studies suggest that mifepristone is better than placebo in reducing the likelihood of caesarean sections being performed for failed induction of labour; therefore, this may justify future trials comparing mifepristone with the routine cervical ripening agents currently in use. There is little information on effects on the baby.
There are no data from randomized controlled trials supporting the use of rescue HFOV in term or near term infants with severe pulmonary dysfunction. The area is complicated by diverse pathology in such infants and by the occurrence of other interventions (surfactant, inhaled nitric oxide, inotropes). Randomized controlled trials are needed to establish the role of elective or rescue HFOV in near term and term infants with pulmonary dysfunction before widespread use of this mode of ventilation in such infants.
In agreement with the previous review, metformin is still of benefit in improving ovulation and pregnancy rates. However, metformin does not improve live birth whether it is used alone or in combination with clomiphene. In addition, metformin has limited effect on metabolic parameters, especially in obese women with PCOS. Therefore, the use of metformin in improvement of reproductive outcomes or in reducing the risk of developing metabolic syndrome in women with PCOS appears to be limited.
The 48 randomised trials do not provide robust evidence for most of the decisions necessary in the management of these fractures. Although, in particular, there is some evidence to support the use of external fixation or percutaneous pinning, their precise role and methods are not established. It is also unclear whether surgical intervention of most fracture types will produce consistently better long-term outcomes.There is a need for good quality evidence for the surgical management of these fractures.
The optimum treatment for Lennox-Gastaut syndrome remains uncertain and no study to date has shown any one drug to be highly efficacious; rufinamide, lamotrigine, topiramate and felbamate may be helpful as add-on therapy. Until further research has been undertaken, clinicians will need to continue to consider each patient individually, taking into account the potential benefit of each therapy weighed against the risk of adverse effects.
Specific treatment including dietary advice and insulin for mild GDM reduces the risk of maternal and perinatal morbidity. However, it is associated with higher risk of labour induction. More research is needed to assess the impact of different types of intensive treatment, including oral drugs and insulin, on individual short- and long-term infant outcomes.
There is limited evidence for the effectiveness of keyboards with an alternative force-displacement of the keys or an alternative geometry, and limited evidence for the effectiveness of exercises compared to massage; breaks during computer work compared to no breaks; massage as an add-on treatment to manual therapy; and manual therapy as an add-on treatment to exercises.
These data suggest that CCB may be preferred as first line agents for hypertensive kidney transplant recipients. ACEi have some detrimental effects in kidney transplant recipients. More high quality studies reporting patient centred outcomes are required.
Because of equal or significantly better outcomes on all parameters, VH should be performed in preference to AH where possible. Where VH is not possible, LH may avoid the need for AH however the length of the surgery increases as the extent of the surgery performed laparoscopically increases. The surgical approach to hysterectomy should be decided by the woman in discussion with her surgeon in light of the relative benefits and hazards.
A lower limb orthosis can improve walking and balance but the included studies have only examined the immediate effects while wearing the orthosis; the effects of long-term use have not been investigated. An upper limb orthosis does not effect on upper limb function, range of movement at the wrist, fingers or thumb, nor pain, but this conclusion is based on only three trials.
The data from this review support the use of heparin thromboprophylaixs in medical patients presenting with an acute medical illness. Although the analysis found no significant difference in efficacy between LMWH and UFH, it did note differences in the incidence of DVT and clinical PE with a significantly reduced risk of bleeding in favour of LMWH.
Only one study, involving people with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, demonstrated a statistically significant positive effect of strength training. No effect of strength training was found in people with either myotonic dystrophy or facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. Surgery had no significant effect in children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and night splinting of the ankle had no significant effect in people with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. More evidence generated by methodologically sound trials is required.
The updated review corroborates the earlier findings that valproate preparations are ineffective in treating agitation among demented patients, and that valproate therapy is associated with an unacceptable rate of adverse effects. More research on the use of valproate preparations for agitation of people with dementia is needed. On the basis of current evidence, valproate therapy cannot be recommended for management of agitation in dementia.
Our systematic review establishes the effectiveness of topical and systemic lidocaine for the prevention of postoperative sore throat resulting from intubation. The risk and severity of postoperative sore throat tended to be reduced. The effect size of lidocaine appeared to be affected by drug concentration and route of administration; management of cuff pressure during anaesthesia; the included population; and the type of outcome measured.
There is insufficient trial evidence to evaluate the effects of antiviral agents with controls or with each other. The rarity of the condition makes effectively powered clinical trials difficult to perform. The efficacy of newer antiviral agents with better bioavailability (e.g. valaciclovir, valganciclovir) for the treatment of neonatal disease needs to be evaluated in randomised trials. The efficacy of oral formulations need to be evaluated as they may be useful for infants with skin, eye or mouth HSV disease or in the treatment of infants with recurrences after the neonatal period.
Statins decreased cholesterol levels in dialysis patients similar to that of the general population. With the exception of one study, studies were of short duration and therefore the efficacy of statins in decreasing the mortality rate is still unclear. Statins appear to be safe in this high-risk population. Ongoing studies should provide more insight about the efficacy of statins in reducing mortality rates in dialysis patients.
We found no evidence that adding hip core decompression to physical therapy achieves clinical improvement in people with SCD with avascular necrosis of bone compared to physical therapy alone. However, we highlight that our conclusion is based on one trial with high attrition rates. Further randomised controlled trials are necessary to evaluate the role of hip-core depression for this clinical condition. Endpoints should focus on participants' subjective experience (e.g. quality of life and pain) as well as more objective 'time-to-event' measures (e.g. mortality, survival, hip longevity). The availability of participants to allow adequate trial power will be a key consideration for endpoint choice.
Treating patients to lower than standard BP targets, &lt;/=140-160/90-100 mmHg, does not reduce mortality or morbidity. Because guidelines are recommending even lower targets for diabetes mellitus and chronic renal disease, we are currently conducting systematic reviews in those groups of patients.
Exercise seems to improve depressive symptoms in people with a diagnosis of depression, but when only methodologically robust trials are included, the effect sizes are only moderate and not statistically significant. Further, more methodologically robust trials should be performed to obtain more accurate estimates of effect sizes, and to determine risks and costs. Further systematic reviews could be performed to investigate the effect of exercise in people with dysthymia who do not fulfil diagnostic criteria for depression.
The four COCs evaluated in placebo-controlled trials are effective in reducing inflammatory and non-inflammatory facial acne lesions. Few important differences were found between COC types in their effectiveness for treating acne. How COCs compare to alternative acne treatments is unknown since limited data were available regarding this question.
Endothelin receptor antagonists can increase exercise capacity, improve WHO/NYHA functional class, prevent WHO/NYHA functional class deterioration, reduce dyspnoea and improve cardiopulmonary haemodynamic variables in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension with WHO/NYHA functional class II and III. However, there was only a trend towards endothelin receptor antagonists reducing mortality in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Efficacy data are strongest in those with idiopathic pulmonary hypertension.
Based on the limited evidence found we cannot conclude whether thrombolytic therapy is better than heparin for pulmonary embolism. More double-blind RCTs, with subgroup analysis of patients presenting with haemodynamically stable acute pulmonary embolism compared to those patients with a haemodynamic unstable condition, are required.
Limited evidence suggests that the method of antibiotic administration (oral versus parenteral) does not affect the rate of disease remission if the bacteria are sensitive to the antibiotic used. However, this and the lack of statistically significant differences in adverse effects need confirmation. No or insufficient evidence exists for other aspects of antibiotic therapy for chronic osteomyelitis.
There is marked inconsistency in the results of the studies included in this systematic review. While the frequency of injury in some study communities did reduce following their designation as a WHO Safe Community, there remains insufficient evidence from which to draw definitive conclusions regarding the effectiveness of the model.The lack of consistency in results may be due to the heterogeneity of the approaches to implementing the model, varying efficacy of activities and strategies, varying intensity of implementation and methodological limitations in evaluations. While all communities included in the review fulfilled the WHO Safe Community criteria, these criteria were too general to prescribe a standardised programme of activity or evaluation methodology.Adequate documentation describing how various Safe Communities implemented the model was limited, making it unclear which factors affected success. Where a reduction in injury rates was not reported, lack of information makes it difficult to distinguish whether this was due to problems with the model or with the way in which it was implemented.
Adjuvant platinum based chemotherapy is effective in prolonging the survival of the majority of patients who are assessed as having early stage epithelial ovarian cancer. However, even given the limits of sub-group analyses, there is strong evidence that optimal surgical staging identifies patients who have either little or nothing to gain from adjuvant chemotherapy. Taken together with the lack of a survival advantage seen in patients with "low-risk" cancers in the ICON1 trial, it appears safe to withhold adjuvant chemotherapy from optimally staged patients with well differentiated tumours.
Overall there was insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of electronic retrieval of healthcare information by healthcare providers to improve practice and patient care.
There is insufficient and conflicting evidence to give any firm recommendations regarding green tea consumption for cancer prevention. The results of this review, including its trends of associations, need to be interpreted with caution and their generalisability is questionable, as the majority of included studies were carried out in Asia (n = 47) where the tea drinking culture is pronounced. Desirable green tea intake is 3 to 5 cups per day (up to 1200 ml/day), providing a minimum of 250 mg/day catechins. If not exceeding the daily recommended allowance, those who enjoy a cup of green tea should continue its consumption. Drinking green tea appears to be safe at moderate, regular and habitual use.
The lack of data from randomised controlled trials makes it difficult to analyse the impact of existing screening programmes on the prevalence of amblyopia. The absence of such evidence cannot be taken to mean that vision screening is not beneficial; simply that this intervention has not yet been tested in robust trials. To facilitate such trials normative data on age-appropriate vision tests need to be available and a consensus reached regarding the definition of amblyopia. In addition, the consequences of living with untreated amblyopia have yet to be quantified and a cost-benefit analysis carried out.
Based on the evidence reviewed, it is possible that intensive advocacy for women recruited in domestic violence shelters or refuges reduces physical abuse one to two years after the intervention but we do not know if it has a beneficial effect on their quality of life and mental health. Similarly, there is insufficient evidence to show if less intensive interventions in healthcare settings for women who still live with the perpetrators of violence are effective.
Data from RCTs for any intervention used in improve kidney outcomes in children with HSP are very sparse except for short-term prednisone. There was no evidence of benefit of prednisone in preventing serious long-term kidney disease in HSP.
All treatments evaluated within the included studies are effective. Benzodiazepines, however, have the potential to cause respiratory depression, probably midazolam more so than lorazepam, and use of this group of drugs outside of services fully confident of observing for and managing the consequences of respiratory distress is difficult to justify. Haloperidol used on its own is at such risk of generating preventable adverse effects that unless it is the only choice, this evidence directs that this sole treatment should be avoided. Olanzapine IM is valuable when compared with haloperidol plus promethazine but its duration of action is short and re-injection is frequently needed. Haloperidol plus promethazine used in two diverse situations in Brazil and India has much evidence to support its swift and safe clinically valuable effects.
Medication treatments can be effective in paediatric anxiety disorders, acting to reduce core symptoms, and should be considered as part of the treatment of these disorders. The greatest number of trials showing efficacy to date have assessed the SSRIs in treating paediatric OCD.There is no clear evidence to show that any particular class of medication is more effective or better tolerated than any other. As quantitative data was only available for the SSRIs and venlafaxine the routine use of benzodiazepines cannot be recommended, especially given concerns of dependency and treatment -related emergent adverse events associated with this class of drugs.Future RCTs could help identify potential clinical moderators of treatment efficacy. Studies of the long-term efficacy of medication treatment, optimal dosage, as well as direct comparisons of pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy are also warranted.
There is insufficient evidence to support improvement in physical or psychosocial outcomes of aerobic exercise in adults with Down syndrome. Although evidence exists which supports improvements in physiological and psychological aspects from strategies using mixed physical activity programmes, well-conducted research which examines long-term physical outcomes, adverse effects, psychosocial outcomes and costs are required before informed practice decisions can be made.
The evidence for brief interventions delivered to heavy alcohol users admitted to general hospital is still inconclusive. From data extracted from two studies it appears that alcohol consumption could be reduced at one year follow up though further research is recommended. Few studies have been retrieved and the results were difficult to combine because of the different measures used to assess alcohol consumption.
The addition of platinum-based chemotherapy to radiotherapy may offer clinical benefit in the adjuvant treatment of early stage cervical cancer with risk factors for recurrence. However, the evidence is limited because the selected studies were quantitatively and qualitatively limited, with small number of patients and limited period of follow-up.
Evidence is limited from a few RCTs that misoprostol, vasopressin, bupivacaine plus epinephrine, tranexamic acid, tourniquet, and mesna may reduce bleeding during myomectomy. There is no evidence that oxytocin and morcellation have an effect on intraoperative blood loss. There is a need for adequately powered RCTs to shed more light on the effectiveness, safety, and costs of different interventions in reducing blood loss during myomectomy.
The addition of bevacizumab to chemotherapy of metastatic colorectal cancer prolongs both PFS and OS in first-and second-line therapy.
We found no evidence that the systemic interventions for untreated patients with AIDS-related NHL provide superior clinical effectiveness for improving OS, DSF, and tumour response rate; however, this conclusion is based on four RCTs with limited sample size and variable quality. More adequately powered RCTs that have low risk of bias are necessary to determine the real benefit or harm of interventions to treat this population. Overall survival (OS), DFS, and quality of life should be included as endpoints.
Our findings indicate that Trizivir remains a viable option for initiating antiretroviral therapy, especially in HIV-infected patients with pre-existing hyperlipidaemia and those who do not tolerate ritonavir.
We could not conclude that the immune responses elicited by the combined vaccine were different from, or equivalent to, the separate vaccines. Data for the primary outcome (prevention of disease) were lacking. There was significantly less immunological response for HIB and HBV, and more local reactions in the combined injections. However, these differences rely mostly on one study each. Studies did not use an intention-to-treat analysis and we were uncertain about the risk of bias in many of the studies. These results are therefore inconclusive. Studies addressing clinical end-points whenever possible, using correct methodology and a large enough sample size should be conducted.
The efficacy of corticosteroid injections for de Quervain's tenosynovitis has been studied in only one small controlled clinical trial, which found steroid injections to be superior to thumb spica splinting. However, the applicability of our findings to daily clinical practice is limited, as they are based on only one trial with a small number of included participants, the methodological quality was poor and only pregnant and lactating women participated in the study. No adverse effects were observed.
No objective conclusion can be drawn from the results of this review as no article was identified in the current literature that satisfied the criteria for inclusion. It is unknown if and how the type of magnification device affects the treatment outcome, considering the high number of factors that may have a significant impact on the success of endodontic surgical procedure. This should be investigated by further long-term RCTs with large sample size. Technical advantages of magnificators have been widely reported in low evidence level studies, but they should be systematically addressed to know if there can be the clinical indication for using a given magnification device for specific clinical situations, such as for molar teeth, or if they can all be used interchangeably. Well-designed RCTs should also be performed to determine the true difference in terms of treatment success rates between using or not using a magnification device in both conventional and surgical endodontic treatment, if any exist.
There is insufficient evidence to bring out the effect of family support in reducing the morbidity and mortality of HIV-infected persons in developing countries. This review has highlighted the dearth of high-quality quantitative research about family support. There is a clear need for rigorous studies of the clinical effects of family support on people with HIV in developing countries.
Clindamycin preparations, oral metronidazole, and oral and intravaginal tablets of lactobacillus were effective for bacterial vaginosis. Hydrogen peroxide douche and triple sulphonamide cream were ineffective. Metronidazole caused metallic taste, nausea and vomiting. We need better-designed trials with larger sample sizes to test the effectiveness of promising drugs.
We found no evidence regarding the effectiveness of the use of incentive spirometry for prevention of postoperative pulmonary complications in upper abdominal surgery. This review underlines the urgent need to conduct well-designed trials in this field. There is a case for large randomized trials of high methodological rigour in order to define any benefit from the use of incentive spirometry regarding mortality.
We found insufficient evidence to determine if overground physical therapy gait training benefits gait function in patients with chronic stroke, though limited evidence suggests small benefits for uni-dimensional variables such as gait speed or 6MWT. These findings must be replicated by large, high quality studies using varied outcome measures.
There are strong suggestions that RT plus EPO has a negative influence on outcome as opposed to RT alone. However, the target haemoglobin concentration, which was higher than recommended in four of the five included RCTs, may have had a significant role. Nevertheless, based on these findings EPO should not be administered as an addition to RT outside the experimental setting for patients with head and neck cancer.
There is insufficient clinical trial evidence regarding the effects of garlic in preventing or treating the common cold. A single trial suggested that garlic may prevent occurrences of the common cold, but more studies are needed to validate this finding. Claims of effectiveness appear to rely largely on poor quality evidence.
Further studies are needed to compare chemoradiation versus thermoradiation versus chemoradiation plus hyperthermia in well selected/conducted and quality controlled randomised trials.
In this review we considered the risk of bias too high because of the poor quality of the retrieved information (small sample size, heterogeneity of comparisons, flaws in the design, conduct and analysis). Although clinical guidelines recommend a second antipsychotic in addition to clozapine in partially responsive patients with schizophrenia, the present systematic review was not able to show if any particular combination strategy was superior to the others. New, properly conducted, randomised controlled trials independent from the pharmaceutical industry need to recruit many more patients to give a reliable estimate of effect or of no effect of antipsychotics as combination treatment with clozapine in patients who do not have an optimal response to clozapine monotherapy.
There is some evidence from one study at high risk of bias that topical glyceryl trinitrate is more effective than placebo for rotator cuff disease among patients with acute symptoms (&lt; seven-days duration), but there is insufficient evidence to be certain about their longer-term effects. Headache was a common side effect in one trial and any benefits of treatment need to be balanced against the risk of headache. Further high quality research is needed to determine the effectiveness and safety of this new therapy.
The authors recommend NSAIDs for relieving discomfort or pain caused by the common cold. Further research is needed to investigate the effect of NSAIDs in relieving respiratory symptoms such as cough and nasal discharge.
There is low quality evidence that legislation can reduce noise levels in workplaces.The effectiveness of hearing protection devices depends on their proper use. There is contradictory evidence that HLPPs are effective in the long-term. Even though case studies show that substantial reductions can be achieved, there is no evidence that this is realised in practice. Better implementation and reinforcement is needed.Better evaluations of technical interventions and long-term effects are needed. Audiometric and noise measurement data are potentially valuable for such studies.
To date, three RCTs have evaluated the effects of deworming on markers of HIV-1 disease progression in helminth and HIV-1 co-infected individuals. All trials demonstrate benefit in attenuating or reducing plasma viral load and/or increasing CD4 counts. When taken together, there is evidence of benefit for deworming HIV-1 co-infected adults. Given that these studies evaluated different helminth species and different interventions, further trials are warranted to evaluate species-specific effects and to document long-term clinical outcomes following deworming.
This review shows that the presence of parents during induction of general anaesthesia does not reduce their child's anxiety. Promising non-pharmacological interventions such as parental acupuncture; clown doctors; hypnotherapy; low sensory stimulation; and hand-held video games needs to be investigated further.
The current evidence is insufficient to support the use of traditional Chinese medicine as a treatment for epilepsy. Much larger, high quality randomised clinical trials are needed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of traditional Chinese medicinal herbs for treating epilepsy.
Only pharmacological interventions were included and none proved to be effective as a disease-modifying therapy for HD. Further trials with greater methodological quality should be conducted using more sensitive biological markers. Pre-symptomatic mutation carriers should be included in future studies.
No intervention proved to have a consistent symptomatic control in HD. Tetrabenazine is the anti-choreic drug with the best quality data available. Other symptomatic areas should be explored by well-designed randomised placebo-controlled studies.
The available evidence suggests that the reduction of exposure to multiple allergens compared to usual care reduces the likelihood of a current diagnosis of asthma in children (at ages &lt; 5 years and 5 years and older). Mono-intervention studies have not produced effects which are statistically significant compared with control. In children who are at risk of developing childhood asthma, multifaceted interventions, characterised by dietary allergen reduction and environmental remediation, reduce the odds of a physician diagnosis of asthma later in childhood by half. This translates to a number needed to treat (NNT) of 17. The effect of multi-faceted interventions on parent reported wheeze was inconsistent and had no significant impact on nocturnal coughing or dyspnoea. Data from monofaceted intervention exposed children studies were not significantly different from those of control groups for all outcomes. There remains uncertainty as to whether multiple interventions are more effective than mono-component interventions. The comparisons made were indirect, making the conclusions drawn uncertain. To our knowledge there are no ongoing studies in which both intervention strategies are randomly compared. The findings, however, warrant further direct comparison between multiple- and monofaceted interventions aimed at reducing the prevalence of asthma in children.
There is presently no evidence from randomised trials to support any recommendation on the use of any immunotherapy treatment in diabetic amyotrophy.
Currently, there is inadequate evidence to conclude whether milnacipran is superior, inferior or the same as other antidepressive agents in terms of efficacy, acceptability and tolerability in the acute phase treatment of major depression. However, there is some evidence in favour of milnacipran over TCAs in terms of dropouts due to adverse events (acceptability) and the rates of experiencing adverse events (tolerability). Information about other clinically meaningful outcomes such as cost-effectiveness and social functioning, including the ability to return to work, is lacking. Further study is needed to answer whether milnacipran would be the better choice of antidepressant for acute major depression.
The trials included in this review confirm the clinical observation that laser photocoagulation of drusen leads to their disappearance. However, there is no evidence that this subsequently results in a reduction in the risk of developing CNV, geographic atrophy or visual acuity loss.
Post-surgical administration of CHM may have comparable benefits to gestrinone but with fewer side effects. Oral CHM may have a better overall treatment effect than danazol; it may be more effective in relieving dysmenorrhea and shrinking adnexal masses when used in conjunction with a CHM enema. However, more rigorous research is required to accurately assess the potential role of CHM in treating endometriosis.
Iron does not increase the risk of clinical malaria or death, when regular malaria surveillance and treatment services are provided. There is no need to screen for anaemia prior to iron supplementation.
The number of patients included in the trials was too small to draw definitive conclusions. The 1-stage approach might be preferable in partially edentulous patients since it avoids one surgical intervention and shortens treatment times, while a 2-stage submerged approach could be indicated when an implant has not obtained an optimal primary stability or when barriers are used for guided tissue regeneration, or when it is expected that removable temporary prostheses could transmit excessive forces on the penetrating abutments especially in fully edentulous patients.
PEI and PAI does not differ significantly regarding benefits and harms in patients with early HCC, but only a limited number of patients have been examined and the bias risk was high in all trials. There is also insufficient evidence to determine whether PEI or segmental liver resection is more effective, although PEI may seem safer.
WF and IFF are probably effective in reducing alcohol misuse. No direct comparisons of WF against IFF were found, but WF impacted across a broader set of outcomes and is less costly so therefore might be preferred. Significant effects were more apparent for short-term outcomes (up to three months). For mailed and group feedback, and social norms marketing campaigns, the results are on the whole not significant and therefore cannot be recommended.
There is insufficient evidence to determine the effectiveness of Maternity Waiting Facilities for improving maternal and neonatal outcomes.
There is insufficient evidence to support strict glycaemic control versus conventional management (maintenance of glucose &lt; 200 mg/dL) for the prevention of SSIs. No trials were found that evaluated strict glycaemic control in the immediate pre-operative period or outside the setting of an intensive care unit. The trials were limited by small sample size, inconsistencies in the definitions of the outcome measures and methodological quality. Further large randomised trials are required to address this question and may be most appropriately performed in patients at high risk for SSIs.
The available evidence is limited, but suggests that adjunctive G-CSF treatment in people with a diabetic foot infection, including infected ulcers, does not appear to increase the likelihood of resolution of infection or healing of the foot ulcer. However, it does appear to reduce the need for surgical interventions, especially amputations, and the duration of hospitalisation. Clinicians might consider adding G-CSF to the usual treatment of diabetic foot infections, especially in patients with a limb-threatening infection, but it is not clear which patients might benefit.
There was insufficient evidence to support the use of cyclobenzaprine in the treatment of MP. We identified only two small studies in which a total of 35 participants were given cyclobenzaprine, and it was not possible to estimate risks for benefits or harms. Further high quality RCTs of cyclobenzaprine for treating MP need to be conducted before firm conclusions on its effectiveness and safety can be made. Experts in this area should elect cut-off points for participants to identify whether a patient has achieved a clinically relevant reduction of pain (primary outcome), so that their results can be combined easily into future versions of this review.
The included trial was a small-scaled study and there were serious limitations in the design and methodology (e.g. allocation concealment was unclear, blinding of outcome assessor(s) was not ensured, few quantitative outcome measures were used, and the results were not reported as planned). Therefore, the current evidence supporting the efficacy of EPG is not strong and there remains a need for high-quality randomised controlled trials to be undertaken in this area.
The results suggest that no psychological intervention can be recommended for routine use following traumatic events and that multiple session interventions, like single session interventions, may have an adverse effect on some individuals. The clear practice implication of this is that, at present, multiple session interventions aimed at all individuals exposed to traumatic events should not be used. Further, better designed studies that explore new approaches to early intervention are now required.
The trials reviewed support the hypothesis that no significant differences in clinical, radiological or pharmacological outcomes oral and intravenous steroids for MS relapses exist. However, with the small number of patients and methodological limitations, conclusions of equivalence are premature.
No significant differences have been found in fatal or non-fatal serious adverse events in trials in which regular salmeterol has been randomly allocated with inhaled corticosteroids, in comparison to inhaled corticosteroids at the same dose. Although 10,873 adults and 1,173 children have been included in trials, the number of patients suffering adverse events is too small, and the results are too imprecise to confidently rule out a relative increase in all-cause mortality or non-fatal adverse events. It is therefore not possible to determine whether the increase in all-cause non-fatal serious adverse events reported in the previous meta-analysis on regular salmeterol alone is abolished by the additional use of regular inhaled corticosteroids. The absolute difference between groups in the risk of serious adverse events was small. There were no asthma-related deaths and few asthma-related serious adverse events. Clinical decisions and information for patients regarding regular use of salmeterol have to take into account the balance between known symptomatic benefits of salmeterol and the degree of uncertainty and concern associated with its potential harmful effects.
Evidence from currently available RCTs was insufficient to conclude that statins have any role in preventing or delaying the onset or progression of AMD.
There is some evidence of benefit for thalidomide and clofazimine, but generally we did not find clear evidence of benefit for interventions in the management of ENL. However, this does not mean they do not work, because the studies were small and poorly reported. Larger studies using clearly defined participants, outcome measures, and internationally recognised scales are urgently required.
Local analgesia infiltration and abdominal nerve blocks as adjuncts to regional analgesia and general anaesthesia are of benefit in caesarean section by reducing opioid consumption. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as an adjuvant may confer additional pain relief.
At this moment there is no evidence from randomised trials on any form of treatment for neuralgic amyotrophy. Evidence from one open-label retrospective series suggests that oral prednisone given in the first month after onset can shorten the duration of the initial pain and leads to earlier recovery in some patients. Randomised clinical trials are needed to establish the efficacy of treatment with corticosteroids or other immune-modulating therapies.
Aldosterone antagonists contribute to reduction of proteinuria in patients with CKD who are already on ACEi and ARB but increase the risk of hyperkalaemia. Available studies are small and have short follow-up. Long-term effects on renal outcomes, mortality and safety are unknown.
There is insufficient evidence available to guide the management of fatigue after stroke. Further trials are required.
The risk of bias in all the included trials was high, and hence the data were not adequate to draw reliable conclusions about the efficacy of acanthopanax in acute stroke. Much larger trials of greater methodological quality are needed.
There is insufficient evidence from one RCT that IVIg adjuvant therapy provides a therapeutic advantage compared with the combination of steroids and immunosuppressants for patients with WG. Given the high cost of IVIg (one dose at 2g/kg for a 70kg patient = $8,400), it should be limited to treat WG in the context of a well conducted RCT powered to detect patient-relevant outcomes.
Pregabalin has proven efficacy in neuropathic pain conditions and fibromyalgia. A minority of patients will have substantial benefit with pregabalin, and more will have moderate benefit. Many will have no or trivial benefit, or will discontinue because of adverse events. Individualisation of treatment is needed to maximise pain relief and minimise adverse events. There is no evidence to support the use of pregabalin in acute pain scenarios.
Well-designed randomised controlled trials are needed to guide clinical practice. Such trials should preferably contain a head-to-head comparison of antiepileptic drugs in patients with MS.
Currently there is insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening of asymptomatic or symptomatic pregnant women with TVU CL. Since there is a non-significant association between knowledge of TVU CL results and a lower incidence of PTB at less than 37 weeks in symptomatic women, we encourage further research. Future studies should look at specific populations separately (eg singleton versus twins; symptoms of PTL or no such symptoms), report on all pertinent maternal and perinatal outcomes, and include cost-effectiveness analyses. Most importantly, future studies should include a clear protocol for management of women based on TVU CL results, so that it can be easily evaluated and replicated.
Our review does not support routine use of ARV TDM in ARV-naive or -experienced patients on either boosted PI or NNRTI ART regimens. TDM in treatment-naive participants on a PI-based ART regimen, particularly if unboosted by ritonavir, may improve virological outcomes. Trials were underpowered with small sample sizes, short durations of follow-up and generally poor uptake of TDM recommendations. As these trials were conducted in higher income earning countries, results may not be generalisable to resource-limited countries where the burden of HIV is heaviest.
ESA treatment in cancer patients increased on study mortality and worsened overall survival. For patients undergoing chemotherapy the increase was less pronounced, but an adverse effect could not be excluded.
Regular use of weekly oral doxycycline 200 mg increases the odds for nausea and vomiting with unclear benefit in reducing Leptospira seroconversion or clinical consequences of infection.
Currently limited and inconclusive data are unable to detect an association between topical corticosteroids and congenital abnormality, preterm delivery, or stillbirth. The current evidence shows no statistically significant difference between pregnant women who use and those who do not use topical corticosteroids. However, there does appear to be an association of very potent topical corticosteroids with low birthweight. Cohort studies with comprehensive outcome measures, assessment of effects of corticosteroid potency and dose, application methods, and reasons for giving them, and a very large sample size are needed.
Etodolac 200 mg may be a useful analgesic in postoperative pain, with efficacy similar to paracetamol 1000 mg and celecoxib 200 mg. Higher doses may provide analgesia equivalent to more commonly used drugs, such as ibuprofen 400 mg, naproxen 500 mg and diclofenac 50 mg.
Flurbiprofen at doses of 50 mg and 100 mg is an effective analgesic in moderate to severe acute postoperative pain. The NNT for at least 50% pain relief is similar to that of commonly used NSAIDs such as ibuprofen and naproxen at usual doses. Use of rescue medication indicates a duration of action exceeding 6 hours.
The review question remains unanswered as there were no randomised control trials found relevant to the topic. There is a need for high quality research to determine the effectiveness of pharmacologic interventions in pregnant women enrolled in alcohol treatment program.
No interventions that have been properly evaluated reduce pain during or after IUD insertion. One poorly controlled trial suggested that topical lidocaine gel may reduce insertion-related pain and warrants further investigation.
The evidence does not support the use of topical rubefacients containing salicylates for acute injuries, and suggests that in chronic conditions their efficacy compares poorly with topical non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Topical salicylates seem to be relatively well tolerated in the short-term, based on limited data. There is no evidence at all for topical rubefacients with other components.
In the absence of evidence of efficacy for oral nefopam in acute postoperative pain, its use in this indication is not justified. Because trials clearly demonstrating analgesic efficacy in the most basic of acute pain studies are lacking, use in other indications should be evaluated carefully. Given the large number of available drugs of this and similar classes, there is no urgent research agenda.
Intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis appeared to reduce EOGBSD, but this result may well be a result of bias as we found a high risk of bias for one or more key domains in the study methodology and execution. There is lack of evidence from well designed and conducted trials to recommend IAP to reduce neonatal EOGBSD.Ideally the effectiveness of IAP to reduce neonatal GBS infections should be studied in adequately sized double-blind controlled trials. The opportunity to conduct such trials has likely been lost, as practice guidelines (albeit without good evidence) have been introduced in many jurisdictions.
Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is another effective first-line treatment for P. falciparum malaria.The performance of the non-ACT (amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine) falls below WHO recommendations for first-line therapy in parts of Africa.In areas where primaquine is not being used for radical cure of P. vivax, ACTs with long half-lives may provide some benefit.
The information from the single trial in acute postoperative pain suggests it to be a useful analgesic, but at doses not very different from racemic ibuprofen.
The available evidence is not sufficient to recommend the use of methotrexate to maintain remission in patients with ulcerative colitis. A large scale methodologically rigorous randomized controlled trial is needed. Such a study should investigate higher doses of methotrexate and parenteral administration.
In the absence of evidence of efficacy for oral aceclofenac in acute postoperative pain (at least at 150 mg single dose), its use in this indication is not justified. Because trials clearly demonstrating analgesic efficacy in the most basic of acute pain studies are lacking, use in other indications should be evaluated carefully. Given the large number of effective drugs available in this and similar classes of analgesics, there is no urgent research agenda required to demonstrate the effective dose of aceclofenac in acute postoperative pain.
In the absence of randomised evidence of efficacy for oral acemetacin in acute postoperative pain, we cannot, at present, make any conclusions regarding its effectiveness. Because trials clearly demonstrating analgesic efficacy in the most basic of acute pain studies is lacking, use in other indications should be evaluated carefully. Given the large number of available drugs of this kind and similar classes, there is no urgent research agenda for this drug.
In the absence of evidence of efficacy for oral tenoxicam in acute postoperative pain, its use in this indication is not justified at present. Because trials clearly demonstrating analgesic efficacy in the most basic of acute pain studies is lacking, use in other indications should be evaluated carefully. Given the large number of available drugs of this and similar classes which are effective, there is no urgent research agenda for this particular drug.
Glucose infusion rate: There is insufficient evidence from trials comparing lower with higher glucose infusion rates to inform clinical practice. Large randomized trials are needed, powered on clinical outcomes including death, major morbidities and adverse neurodevelopment.Insulin infusion: The evidence reviewed does not support the routine use of insulin infusions to prevent hyperglycemia in VLBW neonates. Further randomized trials of insulin infusion may be justified. They should enrol extremely low birth weight neonates at very high risk for hyperglycemia and neonatal death. They might use real time glucose monitors if these are validated for clinical use. Refinement of algorithms to guide insulin infusion is needed to enable tight control of glucose concentrations within the target range.
In patients with elevated blood pressure, orlistat and sibutramine reduced body weight to a similar degree. In the same trials, orlistat reduced blood pressure and sibutramine increased blood pressure. No trials investigating rimonabant in people with elevated blood pressure could be included. Long-term trials assessing the effect of orlistat, sibutramine and rimonabant on mortality and morbidity are needed.
There is not enough evidence to support the use of pentoxifylline in the management of premenopausal women with endometriosis in terms of subfertility and relief of pain outcomes.
There is no reliable evidence available from randomised controlled trials regarding the benefits and or harms of the use of danazol for treating uterine fibroids.
We were unable to identify any randomised controlled trials on the effects of antibacterial agents incorporated into composite restorations for the prevention of dental caries. The absence of high level evidence for the effectiveness of this intervention emphasises the need for well designed, adequately powered, randomised controlled clinical trials.
Currently available evidence does not support the clinical or investigational use of fluoropyrimidine-based HAI alone for the treatment of patients with unresectable CRC liver metastases: in fact, the greater tumor response rate obtained with this HAI regimen does not translate into a survival advantage over fluoropyrimidine alone SCT.
The limited number and small sample size of the included RCTs restricts the confidence that can be attributed to these results. Adequately powered RCTs evaluating exercise programs specifically designed for people with symptomatic hip OA need to be conducted.
We did not identify any eligible studies for inclusion in this review. It is therefore unclear whether a two-step, alcohol followed by antiseptic skin cleansing process prior to blood donation confers any reduction in the risk of blood contamination or bacteraemia in blood recipients, or conversely whether a one-step process increases risk above that associated with a two-step process.
In children with persistent asthma, the addition of LABA to ICS was not associated with a significant reduction in the rate of exacerbations requiring systemic steroids, but was superior for improving lung function compared to the same dose of ICS. Similarly, compared to a double dose ICS, the combination of LABA and ICS did not significantly increase the risk of exacerbations requiring oral steroids, but was associated with a significantly greater improvement in PEF and growth. The possibility of an increased risk of rescue oral steroids and hospital admission with LABA therapy needs to be further examined.
Both TCAs and SSRIs are effective for depression treated in primary care.
Health researchers using postal and electronic questionnaires can increase response using the strategies shown to be effective in this systematic review.
Intragastric balloon therapy was relatively innocuous and associated with successful weight loss and maintenance at 2.5 years in a quarter of participants. It represents a valid option for weight loss.
The use of lidocaine spray in UEGD was shown to result in a higher procedural completion rate, greater ease of intubation, and greater patient and endoscopist satisfaction. Topical lidocaine spray may be a better form of pharyngeal anesthesia than viscous lidocaine solution in UEGD.
Capsule endoscopy and DBE have good agreement for vascular and inflammatory lesions but not for polyps or neoplasia. DBE provides valuable adjunctive information, particularly in patients with neoplasia or polyp at capsule endoscopy. DBE clarified the origin of bleeding in two-thirds of patients with capsule endoscopy showing only blood in the lumen.
EUS-guided CPB and CPN are reasonably safe procedures with tolerable side-effect profiles and low overall complication rates.
EUS-guided hot saline injection of pancreatic tissue in the porcine model was technically successful and led to localized necrosis of pancreatic tissue without any sign of pancreatitis.
The electronic production of an endoscopic report turned out to be the most expensive way of report writing during the first 5 years, due to high initial costs. After 5 years the costs of the different systems were comparable with each other. Cost-benefit analysis showed a positive financial benefit for computerized reports after 3 years.
Aerosol particle pollution has adverse effect on CIHD mortality risk in the eastern US. High risk of CIHD mortality was found in areas with elevated levels of outdoor aerosol air pollution as indicated by satellite derived AOD. The evidence of the association would support targeting of policy interventions on such areas to reduce air pollution levels. Remote sensing AOD data could be used as an alternative health-related indictor of air quality.
Free tissue transfer techniques allow early reconstruction of the soft tissue framework of the face with a single multiple-island flap. Rapid restitution of facial compartments at a soft tissue level can dramatically reduce duration of hospitalization.
Patients with cirrhosis have an impaired postural control compared with controls and this impairment deteriorates with progression of liver disease. HE as well as past alcohol abuse contribute to the pathogenesis of ataxia in liver cirrhosis and past alcohol abuse leads to an earlier and more pronounced manifestation of ataxia in the affected patients.
For the majority of patients with the iron deficiency anaemia and a negative GI evaluation the outcome is favourable, although a proportion (6%) may subsequently be found to have significant GI pathology. We believe that this number could be minimized by the use of colonoscopy rather than barium enema. In addition, small bowel investigations should not be limited to those who are transfusion dependent, as is currently recommended.
This study has shown a consistently low rebleeding and mortality rate in patients with UGIH in a dedicated bleed unit. However there are limitations to the degree of improvements which can be demonstrated due to factors such as age and comorbidity.
The use of sedation in endoscopy varies greatly in Spain. It is seldom used in gastroscopy; it is more frequent in colonoscopy, and in ERCP it is the norm. In most GIE units sedation is controlled by the endoscopist with pulse oximetry. The most commonly used drugs are benzodiazepines, on their own for gastroscopy and combined with opioids for colonoscopy and ERCP.
HCV leads the list of infectious disease-related mortality in Spain in 2000, doubling the AIDS mortality even if lower HCV attributable fractions are considered. Exclusion of cirrhosis and HCC-related mortality severely underestimates the BoD attributable to HCV/HBV. Improving early diagnosis and access to treatment could have an important impact on mortality because of hepatitis virus in the next decades.
Repeated endoscopic screening within 2 years decreased the incidence of gastric cancer and endoscopic resection could be applied to more patients who underwent EGD screening within 2 years.
Our results strongly suggest that NAC prevents experimental cirrhosis by two mechanisms: by preventing oxidative stress and by downregulating the profibrogenic cytokine TGF-beta. As NAC is currently used in humans intoxicated with paracetamol, it can be tested in fibrotic or cirrhotic patients under controlled trials.
A high prevalence of hyperlipidemia in patients infected with HCV is observed. Prevalence is highest among those who are positive for viral RNA. About half the patients with hyperlipidemia were eligible for treatment with drugs to lower it. Treatment of hyperlipidemia with medication though surprisingly common could improve.
The contribution of CTRC variants to TCP is relatively small, but the identification of novel loss-of-function variants (p.G61R) underscores the importance of the trypsinogen pathway in causing TCP.
Although the existence of the TPO-receptor on target liver cells TPO plays only a minor role in mediating hepatocyte apoptosis and does not provide protection against hepatic injury, contrasting the efficacy of the related hematopoietic growth factor erythropoietin.
WCE has a higher diagnostic yield than enteroclysis in the detection of CD of the small bowel, both in patients with known and newly suspected CD.
Heterozygosity at SNP rs2267161 in the gene encoding the CST enzyme confers increased risk of T2D. Females with the CC allele showed lower insulin resistance.
Dehydration due to AGE does not change the ANP's plasma levels. A weak positive correlation between sodium levels and ANP was found r = 0.29. The significant finding of our study is the difference in ANP levels related to age, in the control as well as the GE group.
Eleven cases of hepatic endometrioma have been reported and only four in postmenopausal women. Preoperative diagnosis poses a challenge and so far none of the cases have been diagnosed preoperatively. Surgery remains the treatment of choice. Accurate diagnosis at time of operation may avoid extensive liver surgery and its associated morbidity.
The prevalence of Khat chewing seems to be high among male students and not remarkable among female students. The use of Khat is significantly associated with age, gender, residence and school and college education (p &lt; 0.05) among students of Jazan region. Strong measures need to be taken for greater awareness among school and college students to reduce its prevalence.
The analysis suggests the need for important changes to the NICE recommendations. First, BNP (or NT-proBNP) should be recommended over ECG and, second, some patients should be referred straight for echocardiography without undergoing any preliminary investigation. Future work should include evaluation of the clinical rule described above in clinical practice.
Increasing efforts to encourage social participation and facilitate access to help from other persons should be included among the key priorities in community health promotion.
Cons showed strong evidence that it constituted two separate first order factors. Decisional balance for smoking in adolescence has good evidence of factorial validity.
Preliminary evidence suggests that the Ukrainian DS14 is a valid and reliable measure. Future studies are warranted to test the utility of the scale in cardiac patients in the Ukraine, including whether Type D also predicts adverse health outcomes beyond the boundaries of Western Europe.
The Life Control Scale is brief, valid, and broadly applicable in epidemiological research.
The psychometric properties of DSES were similar to the English version in factor structure, internal consistency, and convergence/divergence construct validity.
The results support previous findings, namely that the IAS factor structure appears to be less complex than originally suggested by the author. For a sample of the general German population, a three-factor solution fit best. Further items should be added to improve the internal consistency, especially for the third scale (health habits).
The present results provide preliminary evidence regarding the construct validity of the BIAQ in a community sample of French adolescents.
The Danish DS14 was shown to be a valid and reliable measure associated with increased symptoms of anxiety and depression independent of socio-demographic and clinical risk factors. The DS14 may be used in research and clinical practice to identify high-risk patients.
These findings suggest that screening HIV+ women for somatic depression may help identify those at risk for cervical neoplasia. Future depression research with medical populations should discern somatic depressive symptoms from disease symptoms, as they may have important value in independently predicting health outcomes.
The WHOQOL showed good psychometric characteristics, suggesting that the Portuguese version of WHOQOL is valid and reliable in the assessment of quality of life in Portugal.
These findings enable health care professionals and researchers designing intervention studies to promote positive health practices.
Cross-language DIF of the JCQ among European countries should be considered in international comparative studies on psychosocial job hazards using JCQ scales.
In this analysis, the angled system did not induce a stress concentration in any point around the implants that was different from that of the straight system. The stress distribution was very similar in both systems.
During implantation, the self-tapping implants typically had a lower insertion torque than the self-drilling implants. Based on the displacements under lateral loading, however, both the self-tapping and self-drilling implants showed similar resistance to lateral forces.
Dental implant placement surgery may induce electrocardiographic alterations. The most frequently found arrhythmias were extrasystole and sinusal tachycardia. The anesthesia, incision, and bone drilling stages exhibited the highest heart rate values and the shortest durations of the RR and QT intervals.
The surface characteristics of titanium affect attachment, spread, and proliferative activity of oral fibroblasts as well as the deposition pattern of collagen in vitro.
The addition of PRP appears to accelerate the repair process.
Considering the complex biomechanical behavior of human hard and soft tissues, EV-SGA and NL-FEA did not suggest inconsistency in the detection of the quality of strains. Further, the methods provided comparable values for the quantification of strains on implants supporting maxillary overdentures.
The use of templates for image-guided insertion of dental implants is a method with high and reproducible accuracy.
Bicortical fixation of implants and the presence of grafted bone with greater stiffness reduced the stresses in native bone. Increasing the length of the implant in grafted bone did not reduce the stress in native bone, but it did reduce the stress in grafted bone. The effects of implant diameters on reducing bone stress are primarily a result of the increased contact area between implant and bone. The results of the FE analysis imply that the success of a sinus-augmented dental implant is heavily dependent on the implant design and rigidity of the bone grafts.
Based upon this study that used a rabbit model with bone grafts placed in the parietal regions, cortical perforations of the receptor bone did not improve repair of bone grafts and did not increase the amount of bone matrix in the final grafted area.
For most of the clinically relevant torque settings, precise values were measured, although a few devices delivered potentially problematic torque values for some of the indications.
The data presented here demonstrate that dental implants fabricated with gap-free abutments using a shape memory alloy showed significantly reduced bacterial leakage versus conventional implants. This improvement could minimize clinical problems such as peri-implantitis and consequently enhance the long-term success of dental implants.
Among the three tested UDBS, the Piezotome and the Piezosurgery II showed a significantly higher cutting performance than the SurgySonic. The Piezotome produced the smallest increase in intraosseous temperature.
Smoking was the most important risk factor in the formation of peri-implant mucositis. Radiation therapy was an explanatory variable for the occurrence of inflammation. Implant surface roughness, augmentation at the implant site, and type of dentition had little influence on clinical signs of peri-implant mucositis. The type of dentition influences the periodontal microbiota at the implant site.
Within the limitations of this study, alteration of VDO was an acceptable procedure in patients with implant-supported fixed restorations, but precautions should be taken to prevent mechanical problems.
(1) Vertical augmentation with e-PTFE membranes and particulated autografts is a safe and predictable treatment; (2) success and survival rates of implants placed in vertically augmented bone with the GBR technique appear similar to implants placed in native bone under loading conditions; (3) success and failure rates of implants placed into bone regenerated simultaneously with sinus and vertical augmentation techniques compare favorably to those requiring only vertical augmentation.
No significant difference in stress patterns between the tilted 5-mm and the nontilted 15-mm configuration was predicted. The tilted configuration with a 15-mm cantilever was found to induce higher stress values than the tilted configuration with a 5-mm cantilever.
These results support the contention that predictable long-term outcomes may be obtained for the atrophic edentulous maxilla when treated with an implant rehabilitation protocol that includes immediate fixed provisional restoration without the use of bone grafting. This strategy offers a promising treatment alternative for the patient with an atrophic edentulous maxilla.
Implants placed in a palatal position may be a viable alternative for rehabilitation of the atrophied maxilla.
Dental implant treatment in a population of patients with severe epilepsy and additional disabilities seems to be a viable treatment option. Implant loss is rare. Although adequate plaque control was not feasible in all patients, marginal bone levels remained stable.
The quality of the included trials was inadequate to allow any conclusion about the efficacy of acupuncture. More research with high-quality trials is needed.
Even though there were fewer ADRs reported by this spontaneous reporting system, it gave valuable information regarding the potential for adverse effects with these agents. The study has reinstated the potential role of spontaneous reporting in identifying lesser reported ADRs, including those to CAM. Such hospital-based programs can contribute much in increasing the safety-related data of these agents.
The hot topics are as follows: (1) anti-inflammatory activity, antioxidant activities, anticancer activity of phytogenic antineoplastic agents, and neuroprotective effects of Chinese herbal drugs; (2) common diseases treated with Chinese herbal drugs include hepatocirrhosis, diabetes, angina, chronic hepatitis B in China, and diabetes, asthma, prostate cancer, and hepatocirrhosis outside of China; (3) Chinese herbal nephropathy and acute hepatitis induced by Chinese herbal drugs; (4) PC-SPES (PDQ) for the treatment of prostate cancer, which was a hot topic for researchers located outside of China; (5) research on extraction of active components from medicinal plants; and finally (6) research related to the identification of the Chinese herbal drugs component with state-of-the-art technologies in China.
We confirmed that indigowood root has anti-inflammatory ability to reduce the mucosal damage caused by radiation. We postulate that indirubin may play a pharmaceutical role in improvement of radiation mucositis, anorexia, and difficulty in swallowing in our clinical trial. However, the exact mechanisms and pathways still need further analysis.
The effectiveness of RJ against bacteria has been extensively reviewed, but this bee product remains unaffordable in most countries. Our findings suggest that combined mixture of RJ and starch could be used to treat infections that are resistant to conventional drugs, at a lower cost.
Both types of breathing exercises benefit patients with hypertension. However, improvement in both the sympathetic and parasympathetic reactivity may be the mechanism that is associated in those practicing the slow-breathing exercise.
A large percentage of the women in the study used herbal remedies during pregnancy--many of them without informing their doctor or midwife. Doctors or midwives should ask pregnant women if they use herbal remedies during pregnancy. Health care personnel should be open to discuss the use of herbal remedies during pregnancy and be able to give balanced information as the use is so widespread.
Inter-rater reliability of TCM diagnosis may be improved through a training process and a questionnaire-based diagnosis process. The improvements varied by diagnosis, with the greatest congruence among primary and more severe diagnoses. Future TCM studies should consider including calibration training to improve the validity of results.
The 8q11.22-23 and 11q22.1-3 regions were suggested as the candidate region for significant linkage to Sasang constitution.
Kampo medicine was able to improve her overall symptom pattern, as Kampo formulas are selected not only by paying attention to the primary symptom (in this case headache) but also by checking the other characteristics (additional symptoms, constitution, etc). This case showed that Kampo treatment is an effective therapeutic option for tension-type headaches accompanied by various other symptoms.
We observed clinically relevant trends of higher WBC values during one cycle of chemotherapy in patients with ovarian cancer, which suggests a potential myeloprotective effect of acupuncture. A larger trial is warranted to more definitively determine the efficacy of acupuncture on clinically important outcomes of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia.
Long-term therapy with Xuezhikang improved LV diastolic function, probably mediated through antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory effects and independent of blood pressure and lipid profiles in patients with essential hypertension.
In this phase I study, ASHMI appeared to be safe and well tolerated by subjects with asthma. These findings allowed initiation of a larger phase II study to assess the efficacy of ASHMI.
Patients rate interactions with their physicians more positively when physicians explain their PDA use.
Specific chart reminders to physicians combined with mailed patient education substantially increased the levels of bone density testing and could potentially be used to improve osteoporosis screening in primary care. Bayesian hierarchical analysis makes it possible to assess practice-level interventions when few practices are randomized.
Unhealthy patient behaviors were associated with increased odds of physical or mental unhealthy days, suggesting a further reason primary care clinicians should address behavior change with patients. Implementing a brief, 2-question, quality of life screening would target groups of primary care patients with a higher prevalence of unhealthy behaviors.
Because of the high prevalence of MRSA skin and soft tissue infections among patients presenting to family physicians, presumptive treatment for MRSA may be indicated. However, increasing levels of resistance to current antibiotics is concerning and warrants development of alternative management strategies.
A practice-based research network of family medicine residency practices focused on CQI outcomes was successful in increasing the delivery of some maternal care interventions.
The technology tested in this trial is the first virtual reality simulation to demonstrate an increase in the alcohol screening and brief intervention skills of health care professionals.
For practical and ethical reasons, PBRNs need to adopt the CBPR approach for certain types, if not all, of their research. This might require operational adaptations by the PBRN (eg, a community advisory board, community membership in the network board of directors, and outreach to community groups for input into network priorities) as well as dedicated time and funding.
It is feasible to conduct clinical research studies in urban community medical practices if the topics are relevant to the community and appropriate enabling structures and processes are put into place.
The Internet can be an effective and feasible alternative method for training clinicians in support of PBRN research.
IRB requirements not directly responsive to federal regulations can add significant costs, frustrations, and burdens to PBRN studies. Non-federally mandated IRB requirements should be based on an identified need with evidence to support the solution.
Before adopting a POC methodology, practices are encouraged to review its feasibility in the context of the office routine, and also to conduct periodic comparisons of the accuracy of POC test results compared with those from laboratory analysis.
Foreign travel remains the most important risk factor for ciprofloxacin-resistant Campylobacter infection. The possible association of both domestic- and travel-related ciprofloxacin-resistant Campylobacter infection with bottled water needs to be further explored.
Ceftobiprole T &gt; MIC of &gt; or =100% (ceftobiprole MICs, &lt; or =2 mg/L) was bactericidal (&gt; or =3 log(10) killing) against MSSA, CA-MRSA, HA-MRSA, VISA and VRSA at 16 and 24 h. Vancomycin was bacteriostatic against MSSA, MRSA and VISA, while demonstrating no activity against VRSA.
This study shows that the MGIT system can be used for rapid and reliable drug susceptibility testing of MAP.
While laboratory-derived tigecycline resistance was associated with increased acrB expression, the variation in tigecycline MICs in clinical isolates was associated only with selected regulator genes. It appears that other mechanisms beyond activation of the acrAB system mediate tigecycline resistance.
Evaluation of the use of moxifloxacin against N. gonorrhoeae is warranted, as is use of multiple-dose fluoroquinolone regimens.
Liposomal aminoglycosides do not fare better than conventional forms. The co-administration of DNase and AlgL is essential for enhanced activity in reducing biofilm growth and sputum bacterial counts. While mucin retards bactericidal activity, NAC does not improve aminoglycosidic activity.
These findings suggest that combination therapy with micafungin and amphotericin B is more effective compared with monotherapy with either of them alone for IPA treatment.
High-level azithromycin resistance has emerged in England and Wales. Contact tracing and typing data suggest this may have originated from Scotland. Surveillance of azithromycin resistance will be key in controlling its further dissemination.
The addition of aminoglycosides to treatment for listeriosis did not improve the patients' outcome.
A daily 300 mg dose of linezolid may be useful for increasing the chances of culture conversion in the treatment of patients with intractable MDR/XDR-TB and might have fewer side effects, especially neurotoxicity, compared with a daily 600 mg dose of linezolid therapy. The present results encourage further research into the use of a 300 mg dose of linezolid for MDR/XDR-TB patients.
The changes in expression of several intrinsic mechanisms in the hypersusceptible strains did not correlate with the observed phenotype. These data highlight the complex interactions of resistance mechanisms in P. aeruginosa and their roles in drug susceptibility.
We have developed a PCR-based assay that easily identifies a clone with high likelihood of producing ESBLs, including CTX-M-15.
Among the 22 679 German Salmonella isolates investigated, the ESBL and AmpC beta-lactamase prevalence was still low; however, it is slowly increasing. Various beta-lactamase genes are linked to a variety of genetic elements capable of horizontal DNA transfer. Consequently, their dissemination is likely and demands adequate risk management strategies.
The high percentage of resistance to quinolones in ETEC and EAEC isolated from travellers to North Africa and India is a matter for concern. These agents should therefore be used with caution in patients with traveller's diarrhoea returning from these geographical areas.
Specific mutational trajectories were identified, strongly suggesting that intermolecular epistatic interactions between DNA topoisomerases underlie the mechanism of fluoroquinolone resistance in L. pneumophila. Our results suggest that L. pneumophila has strong potential to become resistant to fluoroquinolone compounds and warrant further investigation of resistance in clinical and environmental strains of this pathogen.
Short-term antibiotic therapy was not associated with a higher rate of treatment failure. Given the higher costs and incidence of complications, protracted courses of antibiotic administration may not necessarily be routine practice in patients with PHI undergoing SEA, provided that an ALCS is used.
We found substantial variability in AE reporting. Variability was influenced by sponsor identity and affected outcomes. These facts obstruct our ability to choose HAART based on currently published data.
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions are common during clarithromycin administration, but at least half are also seen with a placebo.
LAMB had acceptable safety and tolerance and was useful in prevention and treatment in unselected, mostly granulocytopenic paediatric patients undergoing treatment for cancer or HSCT.
NXL104 inhibitory activity is unique in terms of spectrum, encompassing class A extended-spectrum beta-lactamases, class C enzymes and class A carbapenemases. Given the limited therapeutic options available for infections caused by multiresistant Enterobacteriaceae isolates, NXL104 beta-lactamase inhibitor is a promising agent to be used in combination with a beta-lactam to protect its antibacterial activity.
These data suggest that albendazole-PEG 6000 solid dispersions markedly increased the effectiveness of albendazole against the migratory activity of larvae. Particularly, these polymeric solutions were able to totally prevent migration of larvae to the mouse brain.
Razupenem has good activity against ESBL producers, but is affected by AmpC enzymes, especially when derepressed and coupled with outer membrane impermeability; its activity is also compromised by carbapenemases.
RT thumb subdomain polymorphisms are strongly associated with therapy failure to nucleoside analogues. Based on their structural location, we suggest a role for those residues in controlling the balance between RNase H degradation and nucleotide excision during DNA polymerization.
While the strategies of higher dose FPV/RTV and dual FPV/LPV/RTV were relevant at the time of study initiation, new therapies for antiretroviral-experienced patients make such strategies of limited interest. In addition, this study failed to demonstrate antiviral superiority of the HD-FPV/RTV or FPV/LPV/RTV regimen over the STD-FPV/RTV twice-daily regimen in highly treatment-experienced patients.
The assays INNO-LiPA Rif.TB and MTBDRplus identified rpoB mutations in 98.4% of cases. MTBDRplus provided additional information due to the overlapping hybridization probes and in addition allowed the investigation of katG mutations for isoniazid resistance.
With the implementation of the new breakpoints, clinicians may continue to use penicillin for the treatment of non-meningeal pneumococcal infections in preference to other drug classes. However, as isolates with borderline penicillin MICs are increasing, continued surveillance of pneumococcal susceptibility to penicillin will be needed.
This study expands the knowledge of mutations that potentially contribute to drug resistance in tuberculosis and lays the foundation for developing molecular-based tests to determine drug resistance in clinical tuberculosis isolates.
The GFP-transfectants were found to be suitable for FACS-based ex vivo screening assays. They were also infective to hamsters up to day 60 post-infection.
This study presents for the first time a wide intrahospital spread of KPC-producing K. pneumoniae clones in a European hospital. The KPC producers were rapidly disseminated in several units, indicating the difficulty in restraining such multidrug-resistant clones when they have been established in a hospital environment.
These data indicate that overexpression of the rhaR gene generates metronidazole resistance in B. thetaiotaomicron.
HIF-1alpha was cloned successfully. HIF-1alpha-pcDNA(3.1) can be transfected into MSCs by liposome-mediated method effectively and which resulting stable expression of HIF-1alpha in transfected MSCs.
Our patients with TGA showed cerebellar vermian hypoperfusion in addition to ischemic insults to the lateral hippocampus. The oculomotor abnormalities observed in our patients support the occurrence of cerebellar dysfunction during the TGA attack.
Our results support the finding that the subclinical cognitive deficits characterized by attention, verbal memory impairments, and executive dysfunction are a clinical feature of ET. In addition, our results also support the finding that age at examination and educational status are the most important risk factors associated with cognitive deficits in patients with ET.
Our results suggest that the vascular pathway mediates the association between elevated plasma tHcy levels and AD.
We suggest that neither L-dopa treatment nor the laterality of the initial symptoms of PD is related to the appearance of scoliosis.
SDH should not be excluded from the differential diagnosis of headache following LP, especially when there is a loss of CSF.
The presented case indicates that diffuse large B-cell lymphoma may initially appear as a treatable leukoencephalopathy.
VEMPs may represent a valuable tool for investigating vestibular dysfunction originating from the saccule, even in patients with central vestibulopathies, which is not readily defined by conventional vestibular function tests.
Our results showed that CT/CC genotypes of TGFbeta1 rs1982073:T869C gene were associated with lower risk of RP in patients with NSCLC treated with definitive radio(chemo)therapy and thus may serve as a reliable predictor of RP.
With appropriate information and support in place, PCPs reported being willing to assume exclusive responsibility for the follow-up care of adult cancer survivors. Insights gained from this survey may ultimately help guide strategies in providing optimal care to these patients.
Adults reported to have rhabdomyosarcoma had worse survival than children with similar tumors. Predictors of poor outcome in children were valid in adults except for alveolar histology and unfavorable tumor site.
Bevacizumab with modified FOLFOX6 is well tolerated in the surgical adjuvant setting in these patients. No significant increase in GI perforation, hemorrhage, arterial or venous thrombotic events, or death with the addition of bevacizumab to modified FOLFOX6 has been observed. Follow-up for potential delayed adverse effects and efficacy is ongoing.
With a 3-year local tumor control rate higher than 90% with limited toxicity, SBRT emerges as state-of-the-art treatment for medically inoperable stage I NSCLC and may even challenge surgery in operable instances.
Sentinel node biopsy is a suitable procedure to stage clinically node-negative penile cancer, and it has a low complication rate. No learning curve was demonstrated in this study.
Two dosing cycles consisting of weekly docetaxel and monthly (153)Sm-lexidronam were well tolerated and feasible in this CRPC population.
This regimen, involving a maintenance component, was associated with acceptable toxicity and relatively long survival in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. These results justify a phase III comparison against the standard-of-care in this patient population.
Using modern conventional therapy in the frontline treatment of LBL, 10% of patients suffer from progressive disease or relapse. Because of the extremely poor reinduction success, the salvage rate for these patients is poor, with only a 14% (SE = 6%) overall survival. Long-term survival was only achieved in those few patients who were able to undergo an allogeneic SCT.
EBV-nave patients who receive a donor organ from an EBV-infected donor are in the highest-risk situation for PTLD development. Most of these lymphomas are CD20 positive. Follicular lymphoma is unusual. With treatment, survival of patients with PTLD was indistinguishable from that of the SEER population sample.
Veltuzumab appeared safe and active at all tested doses, encouraging further study, including dose levels less than those typically used with rituximab.
Although an OS benefit was not seen on a primary intent-to-treat analysis, results of a secondary OS analysis censoring placebo patients demonstrated a survival advantage for those receiving sorafenib, suggesting an important cross-over effect. VEGF levels are prognostic for PFS and OS in RCC. The results of TARGET establish the efficacy and safety of sorafenib in advanced RCC.
Detection of five or more CTCs during therapeutic monitoring can accurately predict prognosis in MBC beyond metabolic response. FDG-PET/CT deserves a role in patients who have fewer than five CTCs at midtherapy. Prospective trials should evaluate the most sensitive and cost-effective modality for therapeutic monitoring in MBC.
Extending chemotherapy, particularly with a third-generation regimen, improved PFS substantially, but OS less so. Future trials should test extending treatment with more effective and/or better-tolerated agents.
Diabetic patients with breast cancer receiving metformin and neoadjuvant chemotherapy have a higher pCR rate than do diabetics not receiving metformin. Additional studies to evaluate the potential of metformin as an antitumor agent are warranted.
Most patients with synchronous, stage IV CRC who receive up-front modern combination chemotherapy never require palliative surgery for their intact primary tumor. These data support the use of chemotherapy, without routine prophylactic resection, as the appropriate standard practice for patients with neither obstructed nor hemorrhaging primary colorectal tumors in the setting of metastatic disease.
Both serum levels of sCD163 and the presence of CD68(+) macrophage infiltration at the tumor invasive front are independent predictors of survival in AJCC stage I/II melanoma. CD163(+) cell infiltration in tumor stroma may be predictive of survival.
Results suggest that both p63 (4A4) and p63 (H-137) can detect epidermal stem cells. But, p63 (H-137) seemed to be a better marker because p63 (H-137)-positive cells were more localized at basal layer. In addition, it can be said that p63alpha (C-12) can detect TAp63, which is important in differentiation of epidermis. Furthermore, it is concluded that molecular control of TAp63 is especially disorganized in hyperproliferative condition including psoriasis and SEs.
An accelerated clinical course can occur in the setting of DM in previously healthy patients. A viral-based etiology should be explored because antiviral therapy may define a critical and potentially lifesaving therapeutic endeavor.
Elastic and collagen fiber damage are the main accompanying features of GA, which may develop from delayed-type hypersensitivity. Vasculitis does not appear to be a major causative process. Sun exposure also seems to have no major effect on the formation of GA but can be one of the stimulants or predisposing factors.
The distinctive patterns of elastic fibers, best shown by the elastin immunostain, were helpful in evaluating melanomas associated with melanocytic nevi.
CD163 is a useful adjunct in distinguishing AFX from other malignant cutaneous spindle cell tumors and offers improved specificity in identifying cutaneous histiocytic/dendritic lesions.
Skin manifestations and neurological findings, although to different degrees, are important clues to the diagnosis of IVLBCL. As most IVLBCL are grouped into the post-germinal center B-cell subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Bcl2 expression may be correlated with a worse prognosis in IVLBCL. The cutaneous variant of IVLBCL has a significantly better outcome than that of systemic IVLBCL.
Our results suggest that increased plasma MDA level and decreased plasma GSH-Px and SOD levels reflect the increased levels of oxidative stress in BD patients, and this situation may impair genetic stability in BD patients.
LHR can prevent the recurrence of PNS. LHR should be advised as an essential adjuvant treatment after surgical excision of PNS. In non-complicated recurrent PNS, LHR is strongly advocated to be started before and continued after doing surgical treatment.
This peculiar isomorphic reaction of cutaneous GVHD after sun or narrow-band ultraviolet B exposures is described, and the possible mechanism involved is discussed. It may represent an interesting model of progression of chronic GVHD, starting with an acute stage and ending up with chronic clinical and histological findings, especially considering that there is no animal model that fully replicates all of the features of chronic GVHD in humans.
The melanotic melanocytes were the first target of the disease process followed by the amelanotic melanocytes. Since the disappearance of the latter was inversely correlated with the disease duration, early treatment in vitiligo is advised.
In this study of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, joint and nail symptoms were prevalent and patients with these symptoms had significantly greater HR-QoL impairment at baseline than unaffected patients. Etanercept provided significant improvement in symptom severity and HR-QoL.
The proposed method can minimize the scar when treating facial epidermal inclusion cysts that are less than 1 cm and obtained better cosmetic results.
The two-compound scalp formulation was superior to calcipotriol scalp solution in improving QoL in patients with scalp psoriasis.
Naltrexone is more effective than placebo in the treatment of pruritus in patient with eczema. Naltrexone might be considered as an adjunct treatment in the treatment of pruritus. However, further studies in this aspect are highly fostered.
The sequential treatment mometasone furoate 0.1% and salicylic acid 5% followed by mometasone furoate 0.1% proves to be efficient, safe and an excellent option for the following sequence: in-patient and out-patient.
PDL seems to be effective in the treatment of nail psoriasis and improves nail matrix and nail bed involvement. MAL does not seem to play role in the clinical response.
According to our results, it seems that all psychocutaneous disorders but delusion of parasitosis are commoner in females. Mood and anxiety disorders were common in patients with dermatitis artefacta, as patients with neurotic excoriation. In trichotillomania, obsessive compulsive disorder was the commonest disorder. Drug abuse is a major background of delusional parasitosis.
Patient education about HIV/AIDS in dermatological ambulant settings should be performed differentially with regard to socio-demographic factors, and focused on the topic of oral sexual HIV transmission and on some other specific misconceptions.
Tacrolimus ointment appears to be an effective treatment option for facial vitiligo. A guarded prognosis is advisable for vitiliginous lesions on other localizations. Treatment must be applied twice daily for optimum response.
Capsule endoscopy may detect small bowel tumors more reliably by using the scoring system outlined. It should be considered in suspected cases of small bowel tumor.
The tetravalent polysaccharide Mencevax ACWY meningococcal vaccine was well tolerated and immunogenic in subjects aged 2-30 years in Taiwan.
Combination of low-dose nalbuphine and morphine in PCA decreases the incidence of opioid-related nausea, without affecting the analgesia and PCA requirement. This novel combination can improve the quality of PCA used for postoperative pain control after gynecological surgery.
MT may bind heavy metals and protect patients from CaP. Additional studies are needed to reveal the factors that influence the expression of MT in prostate epithelial cells, and to analyze the free and compound forms of Cd at the same time.
The findings suggest severe oxidative stress and weakened antioxidant activity in alcoholic patients, and limited changes in oxidative stress in the early stages of alcohol withdrawal.
Nine of the 11 clinical features examined---height, weight, BMD, dentinogenesis imperfecta, bone deformity, scoliosis, walking ability, fracture rate, and family history---were significantly different among the three types of OI patients. This finding may be of help in evaluating patients and establishing their prognosis.
The movement of V AB can be used as an index of DE among the normal population in the supine position. Its application in patients requires further study.
These findings suggest that HIV-infected persons in whom the percentage of memory B cells that express IgM is decreased might be at greater risk for the development of cryptococcosis.
Results indicate that asthma control is associated with better health outcomes. Management with therapies optimizing asthma control may reduce direct and indirect costs of treatment.
There is significant association between bone lead and blood lead, and the association is nonlinear. The nonlinear associations between blood lead and bone lead are not significantly modified by age and NTx.
: If organizations are successful in encouraging the high-risk individuals to reduce their risks while also helping the low-risk employees remain low risk, they will improve the health and vitality of employees while also improving cost and productivity outcomes.
On the basis of these results, can we suppose the existence of an "intermediate genotype" advantage (at least for induction of SCE)?
Self-reported health care utilization and absenteeism may be used as a proxy when medical claims and administrative data are unavailable, particularly for shorter recall periods.
The results suggest that low-cost policy or environmental change interventions in worksites may be more likely to be cost saving than high cost, individually targeted behavioral change interventions unless they result in substantial weight loss.
Worksite intervention with both SRT as well as APE is recommended, since these activities compared with REF resulted in clinically relevant reductions of cardiovascular and metabolic syndrome-related risk factors as well as musculoskeletal pain symptoms, in combination with minor increases in physical capacity.
These data support an important role for occupational exposures in COPD.
Overall participation rates in employee population health assessments can disguise large variation in employee engagement. This variation is associated with work sociocultural characteristics. Attention to these attributes may be essential to improving involvement in employer sponsored health promotion.
The results provide support for the IEISI being a reliable, valid, and fast tool for the study of specific symptom prevalence in IEI and encourage further study of subgroups.
Clinical and cost-effectiveness research in the worksite/corporate environment continues to evolve although there was only one randomized clinical trial conducted during the most recent interval. There are innovations in pilot studies, quasi-experimental methodologies, and econometric modeling as indicative of future trends.
Daily consumption of B. longum SPM1207 can help in managing mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia, with potential to improve human health by helping to prevent colon cancer and constipation.
These results suggest that the n-3 PUFA composition of milk may be associated with weight gain and growth. Considering the advantages of n-3 LC-PUFA consumption on infant growth and visual function and its association with reduced incidence of premature birth, dietitians should advise pregnant women to increase their intake of foods high in n-3 LC-PUFA.
Nurses' past experiences and education must be addressed if efforts are to be made to promote breastfeeding in the NICU. Breastfeeding education programs for nurses should include reflective components to help nurses identify structural barriers and reframe any negative personal experiences.
Adolescents can be encouraged to breastfeed, but require appropriate education beyond what they have heard from others. Myths such as pain during breastfeeding need to be addressed. Since teens want to learn but not be told what to do, active learning strategies such as guided Internet searches could be helpful to guide them into discovery of the benefits of breastfeeding. Since all the teens in this study felt that "the baby comes first," emphasizing the benefits of breastfeeding for the baby should predominate educational efforts. Concerns related to physical exposure while breastfeeding can be addressed antenatally through discussing creative strategies to maintain modesty. This study suggests that, in the postpartum hospital setting, adopting a sensitive, initially "hands-off' approach to supporting breastfeeding might be more well-accepted than tactile assistance, and that following the initial establishment of a milk supply, various levels of breastfeeding exclusivity should be considered as potentially acceptable infant feeding patterns.
Clinical measures should be valid and reliable. Due to day-to-day changes in maternal and infant sleep-wake pattern, a diary collected over 1 day may not provide adequate sleep information. These study findings indicate that 3 days of diary data are sufficient to reliably measure mother and infant sleep patterns. When using a diary to assess maternal and infant sleep-wake pattern in clinical practice or in clinically-based research, a 3-day period is suggested.
Specific predictors, including cerebral malaria, can identify patients with malaria at risk of anti-convulsant treatment failure and seizure recurrence.
Patients with ASVV have raised cytokine levels in the urine compared to healthy controls, even during remission. Raised MCP-1 levels are associated with poor prognosis and possibly also with relapse tendency. The association with poor prognosis was stronger for U-MCP-1 than for conventional markers of disease like CRP, BVAS, and ANCA, as well as compared to candidate markers like U-IgM and U-IL-8. We thus consider U-MCP-1 to have promising potential as a prognostic marker in ASVV.
Insomnia in postmenopausal women attending a menopause clinic is related both to the effects of vasomotor symptoms and depressive symptomatology. Mood symptoms seem to affect sleep independently of vasomotor symptoms, suggesting that depression should be carefully assessed and treated in postmenopausal women with insomnia.
Our results agree with previous studies regarding the potential association between health and lifestyle factors and dyspareunia. Additional studies of female sexual dysfunction in Puerto Rican women are highly warranted.
Both hot flashes and depressive symptoms occur early in the menopausal transition in women with no previous experience of these symptoms. Depressive symptoms are more likely to precede hot flashes in women who report both symptoms. The findings support the concept that the changing hormonal milieu of the menopausal transition is one of multiple factors associated with the onset of symptoms.
Sleep quality and selected parameters of objectively measured sleep, but not sleep interruption, are worse in depressed than in nondepressed women with VMS. The type of sleep disturbance seen in depressed participants was not consistent with the etiology of depression secondary to VMS-associated awakenings.
Even minimal evidence of abnormal autoimmune function ("immunological noise") seems to increase risk toward premature ovarian aging, often manifesting as infertility. Evidence of abnormal autoimmune function, such as increased CGG triple expansion sizes, in young women, therefore, warrants vigilance for development of prematurely diminished ovarian reserve and infertility.
These findings suggest that in healthy postmenopausal women, 12 weeks of aerobic training is effective in eliciting favorable cardiovascular adaptations, regardless of the presence of short-term HT.
Our findings suggest that the prevalence of UI is high in China, with SUI as the most common subtype. Age, vaginal delivery, and others are risk factors for SUI.
Onion consumption seems to have a beneficial effect on bone density in perimenopausal and postmenopausal non-Hispanic white women 50 years and older. Furthermore, older women who consume onions most frequently may decrease their risk of hip fracture by more than 20% versus those who never consume onions.
We concluded that alendronate sodium resulted in a significant decrease in IMT during a 1-year period compared with matched controls. Also, alendronate was associated with a positive effect on the ApoB/ApoA-I ratio.
Prevalence of menopausal symptoms was high among women in this study. Although any woman could face challenges associated with menopausal symptoms, those who were older, perimenopausal, and postmenopausal and who had routine or manual occupations had the highest total MRS scores. All women, especially those in these categories, should receive health information and guidance on possible lifestyle adjustments to ease the disruptions that menopausal symptoms can cause.
A low dose (1 g = 0.625 mg) of SCE-A vaginal cream administered twice weekly was shown to be effective compared with placebo in treating VVA in postmenopausal women for the three coprimary efficacy measures of maturation index, pH, and severity of the MBS.
Physiologically documented and self-reported hot flashes were not exacerbated by tryptophan depletion. Additional mechanistic research is needed to better understand the etiology of hot flashes.
An independent inverse association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels and dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry measurements of total body and regional fat mass was observed in nonosteoporotic, overweight, postmenopausal women. Further clinical trials are required to come to safe conclusions on whether it is the fat mass that affects serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels or vice versa and whether there is a need to also take into account body composition when providing recommendations for vitamin D intake in postmenopausal women.
These results suggest a complex relationship between mood, memory, and hormones that may underlie perimenopausal memory complaints. Furthermore, they suggest that some women may be particularly vulnerable to the subjective experience of memory problems and relative decreases in attentionally mediated cognitive function.
Our results suggest that moxibustion reduces both the frequency and severity of menopausal hot flashes as compared with those in control participants. We would recommend further studies with larger samples and possibly including placebo controls.
Overnight cortisol levels during the MT were associated with E1G, testosterone, and FSH levels. In addition, they were significantly and positively associated with epinephrine and norepinephrine. MT stage, symptoms, and social, stress-related, and health-related factors had little relationship to overnight cortisol levels when other biological indicators were considered.
Among older postmenopausal women with CHD, EPT may increase risk of CHD events substantially in the first year of treatment among women with clinically significant hot flushes but not among those without hot flushes.
Although salivary testing of T concentrations is an appealing alternative because it is inexpensive and noninvasive, our results do not support the routine use of salivary T levels in postmenopausal women.
The odds of an atrophic smear are significantly reduced for postmenopausal women who use a five-night regimen of vaginal estrogen before their Pap test.
This work presents a plausible mechanism of action for many of the herbal medicines used by Costa Rican women to treat menopausal symptoms. However, it further suggests that studies of safety and efficacy are needed before these herbs should be used as alternative therapies to hormone therapy.
Daily and twice-weekly use of low-dose CE cream was equally effective in relieving symptoms of vulvovaginal atrophy. Both regimens showed endometrial safety and sustained efficacy during 1 year of therapy.
Findings indicated dissimilarities between subjective and objective measures of hot flashes. Despite statistical significance, there was little clinically meaningful change in hot flashes after initiating aromatase inhibitor therapy.
These findings may facilitate identification of potential placebo responders in future randomized controlled trials on menopausal symptoms and have relevance to study design in this context. Further research is required.
Olaparib has few of the adverse effects of conventional chemotherapy, inhibits PARP, and has antitumor activity in cancer associated with the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00516373.)
A single dose of raxibacumab improved survival in rabbits and monkeys with symptomatic inhalational anthrax. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00639678.)
The rate of serious infection after medical abortion declined by 93% after a change from vaginal to buccal administration of misoprostol combined with routine administration of antibiotics.
The presence and titer of maternal folate-receptor autoantibodies were not significantly associated with a neural-tube defect-affected pregnancy in this Irish population.
The Tumor-Node-Metastasis staging was considered irrelevant for gliomas that seldom metastasize to lymphatics or outside the neuraxis. Instead, a 4-point staging/grouping system is proposed, using histological grade as the main prognostic variable and at least one stage migration based on other unfavorable features such as tumor location (brainstem); age (&lt;5 years for all grades, &gt;50 years for high-grade, and &gt;40 years for low-grade gliomas); poor neurological performance status (NPS 2-4); multicentricity and/or gliomatosis; and adverse biological parameters (proliferative index, angiogenesis markers, apoptotic index, cytogenetic abnormalities, and molecular markers).
In absence of a grouping/staging system for primary brain tumors, prognostification is mostly based on complex composite indices. The proposed clinicopathobiological grouping/staging system for gliomas is a simple, pragmatic, and user-friendly tool with a potential to fulfill the objectives of staging classification.
In the initial experience (1990s), the emphasis in microsurgery was preserving life, total excision of tumor and preservation of function in that order. In the 21 st century, the emphasis in microsurgery has been all about functional preservation. In 100 consecutive cases of VS (excluding neurofibromatosis-2) that were treated microsurgically between 2005-08, there were four small tumors (&lt;2 cm), 14 medium-sized tumors (2-3 cm) and 82 large tumors (&gt;or=3 cm). The total excision rate was 83%. The facial nerve anatomical preservation rate was 96% and function was Grade III House-Brackmann (HB) or better in 87%. Both the total excision rate and facial function of Grade II HB or better were 100% in cases with tumor size less than three cm. Functional hearing preservation was achieved in ten cases. There was no operative mortality.
Total excision of VS, though aimed at, is no more pursued at the cost of facial function. Moreover, microsurgery, radiosurgery and observation are all valid options in the management of VS and choosing the correct modality helps in achieving optimal outcome.
These results may indicate, not only apoptosis and necrosis, but there occurs the co-existence of intermediate cell death pathways in human glial tumors.
Brainstem cavernomas can safely be resected. Successful resection of brainstem cavernomas can be achieved by optimal surgical approaches, feasible entry zone and meticulous microsurgical techniques. The goal of surgical intervention should be the total resection of the lesion without any deteriorative in the neurological deficits.
The surgical management of intrinsic brainstem tumors presents a surgical challenge; radical excision yielded a good outcome in the majority of cases. The authors propose a classification system for 'intrinsic' brainstem tumors for defining surgical strategy.
AMAN is a distinct subgroup in GBS showing certain distinguishing features, the most notable being predominant weakness of finger extensors.
B-CSFB dysfunction was present in only half of the patients with GBS during the first week from onset and it was directly associated with progression and clinical severity; nevertheless, a low B-CSFB dysfunction response during follow-up was associated with a lethal outcome, suggesting it could also serve a 'protective' effect during regeneration.
Once-daily baclofen SR and GRS are efficacious, convenient, and better-tolerated alternatives to baclofen IR in patients with neurogenic spasticity.
Gabapentin was found to be partially effective and safe in symptomatic treatment of CTS patients.
Since both drugs showed almost equal analgesic effect, considering its safety profile mesalamine, seems to be the preferred choice to alleviate post-discectomy surgery pain.
Retained paravertebral surgical sponges are seldom reported due to medicolegal implications. Awareness of this complication among neurosurgeons and radiologists is essential to avoid unnecessary morbidity.
Reflecting on translation and interpretation challenges during the data collection process in a language which the nurse researcher does not speak, can help reduce (or avoid) potential mistakes and error. The paper reflects on a model of translation processes which emerged during fieldwork which helps understand what events happened and what actions were taken to obtain the most accurate data. Using a model such as this for cross cultural fieldwork may be useful for both novice and established researchers.
The metaphors and descriptive words used act as what we describe as 'emotional intensifiers' which provide a measure of the impact of the effect of illness, the effect of the day services on users and carers and the intensity of feeling during the time of transition.
Thus, we conclude that the concerted effort of both major checkpoint kinases in fission yeast, Chk1 and Cds1, protect cells from cisplatin induced DNA damage. These observations are significant because they suggest that various classes of inter-strand crosslinking agents may generate slightly different lesions as work by others did not observe loss of viability in cds1(-) cells treated with other crosslinking agents like nitrogen mustard.
This is the first study to characterize the CX3CR1 gene polymorphisms in patients with preeclampsia. We found no differences in genotype or haplotype frequencies between patients with PE and normal pregnancies, suggesting that maternal CX3CR1 V249I and T280M polymorphisms do not increase susceptibility to preeclampsia. Further studies should be performed to directly evaluate the pathophysiological role of CX3CL1, a molecule abundantly expressed in endometrium, which has been shown to stimulate human trophoblast migration.
Our results first demonstrated that a temporal discrepancy of less than 300 ms between visual stimulation of the rubber hand and tactile stimulation to the subject's own hand is preferable to induce strong sensation of RHI. We suggest that the time window of less than 300 ms is critical for multi-sensory integration processes constituting the self-body image.
The tandem construct provides a sensitive measure of transcription termination in human cells. Decreased Xrn2 or Senataxin levels produced only a modest release from termination. Our data support overlap in allosteric and torpedo mechanisms of transcription termination and suggest that efficient termination is ensured by redundancy.
In this study we elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which two pro-differentiating stimuli, BMP2 and acute high oxygen exposure, control HIF-1alpha stability. We previously reported that both these stimuli, by inducing astroglial differentiation, affect GBM cells growth. We also found differences in high oxygen and BMP2 sensitivity between GBM cells and normal cells that should be further investigated to better define tumor cell biology.
The evolutionary conservation of coilin from plants to animals suggests that the protein plays an important role, perhaps coordinating the activities of various RNA-processing machineries. Our observations are consistent with the idea that coilin functions to ensure robust organismal development, especially during periods of rapid growth.
Fused with NtA, NGF-beta could bind to laminin specifically. Since laminin is the major component of nerve extracellular matrix, laminin binding NGF could target to nerve cells and improve the repair of peripheral nerve injuries.
Specific alleles at predicted TFBSs may alter the expression of RPS19, modify an important interaction between transcription factors with overlapping TFBS or remove an important stimulus for hematopoiesis. We suggest that the detected interactions are of importance for hematopoiesis and could provide new insights into individual response to treatment.
While IL-6 plays a pathogenic role in experimental-induced autoimmune disease, its function following viral-induced autoimmunity is not reprised. By regulating the early immune response and thereby controlling the severity of chronic disease, IL-6 directs the outcome of chronic autoimmune myocarditis.
Our study reports strong evidence to show that hypokinesia and catalepsy induced by alpha-flupentixol are triggered by dramatic changes occurring in basal ganglia network. We provide new insight into the key role of GP in the pathophysiology of APD-induced EPS suggesting that the GP can be considered as a potential target for the treatment of EPS.
Pik1 kinase activity is required for septation. The Pik1 R838 residue is required for important protein-protein interactions, possibly with Cdc4.
The sclerosis associated with c-GVHD appears to resemble wound healing. Focal capillary proliferation occurs in early c-GVHD. In contrast, loss of canonical endothelial markers and dermal capillaries is seen in SSc, but not in c-GVHD. The loss of VE cadherin in SSc, in particular, may be related to microvascular rarefaction because VE cadherin is necessary for angiogenesis. C-GVHD is a suitable model for studying dermal fibrosis but may not be applicable for studying the microvascular alterations characteristic of SSc.
TTO utility scores in patients with affective or alcohol-related mental disorders were reasonably valid, but discriminative ability was compromised by a ceiling effect due to zero trade. In schizophrenic patients, validity of TTO utility scores was not demonstrated.
In this large inpatient database, later vancomycin use in patients with cSSSIs appears to be significantly associated with higher LOS and total costs.
This study suggests that chewing commercially available areca-nut preparations such as gutka is strongly associated with the development of oral submucosal fibrosis.
Microleakage has a critical influence on pulpal repair. It is not beneficial to cap the pulp with self-etching adhesive systems. Diverse pulpal responses were observed to the self-etching adhesive systems, and the histological changes were more pronounced than in the control pulps treated with Dycal. The effects of the self-etching adhesive systems are such that these materials require further study to address issues of bacterial microleakage during placement of restorations.
Delayed, rather than immediate, light polymerization of the dual-cured composite base reduced microleakage in Class 2 open-sandwich restorations.
Some sensory changes can occur after graft harvesting from the palate.
No inflammatory reactions, necrotic areas, or severe immunoreactions for proinflammatory cytokines were found, suggesting biocompatibility of self-etching or total-etching adhesive systems when placed directly on dentin.
Brushing twice a day for 2 minutes with Fluor Kin antisarro effectively reduces supragingival calculus.
Various embrasure morphologies did not affect central papilla height in subjects with papilla recession. However, other factors may affect the central papilla height, and further study of these factors is necessary.
The Cresco technique has a potential to reduce the marginal gap between implants and suprastructures.
In this animal model, the neurotoxicity of intrathecal procaine was the mildest, and the recovery time to ambulation with procaine was the fastest among the 4 tested anesthetics.
Sodium bicarbonate plus epinephrine shortens the onset and prolongs the duration of a chloroprocaine-bupivacaine sciatic block in Sprague-Dawley rats.
Our findings suggest that intraneural needle insertion may more commonly result in interfascicular rather than intrafascicular needle placement.
Whereas several factors were found to influence outcome, no single clinical variable reliably predicted treatment results. The use of more stringent selection criteria was not associated with better outcomes.
In this study, the minimum volume required for US-guided supraclavicular block in 50% of patients was 23 mL, and in 95% of patients was 42 mL. Under the present study conditions, the calculated volume of LA required for US-guided supraclavicular block does not seem to differ from the conventionally recommended volume required for supraclavicular blocks using non-US-based nerve localization techniques.
Our prospective observational study suggests that anesthesiology-related reasons may be an important factor for not undertaking these techniques. Although we did not specifically examine the effect on resident education, our study does provide some evidence to support program directors and department chiefs to set up their regional rotations with faculty most likely to perform RA.
Our study shows that a simple model can be as useful for learning how to place an epidural catheter as an expensive anatomically correct simulator. New and more technologically advanced simulators should be compared against lower fidelity models to establish their utility and cost-effectiveness.
In the clinical study, in 98% of cases, the final stimulation response of posterior or medial cord was found as predicted by the findings of the anatomic study. Once elbow flexion is elicited, a further (ie, deeper) advancement of the needle will result in the proper distal motor response.
Based on the ultrasound measured cross-sectional area and using ultrasound guidance, a mean volume of 0.7 mL represents the ED95 dose of 1% mepivacaine to block the ulnar nerve at the proximal forearm.
Ultrasound guidance improves the accuracy of local anesthetic placement when undertaking the rectus sheath block. An additional fascial plane above the anterior layer of the rectus sheath may be wrongly perceived as the anterior layer of the rectus sheath when the block is undertaken without the aid of ultrasound.
High-definition ultrasonography offers potential advantages in the administration of peripheral nerve blockade. The significant difference in major central nervous system local anesthetic toxicity observed in this study supports the use of ultrasound guidance in conjunction with peripheral nerve stimulation to provide brachial plexus peripheral nerve blockade in an academic, ambulatory anesthesia practice.
In healthy volunteers, US guidance results in a more successful tibial nerve block at the ankle than does a traditional approach using surface landmarks.
Obturator nerve block using USG to achieve interfascial injection without nerve stimulation had success similar to that reported in studies using nerve stimulation.
Ultrasound enables visualization of the LFCN in a cadaver and in volunteers. Ultrasound-guided injection successfully blocked the LFCN.
Suprascapular notch measurements and the visualization of the anatomical neighborhood, which may be beneficial for the suprascapular nerve blockade procedure, can be successfully performed by the use of high-frequency ultrasound imaging.
Stereotactic navigation is a useful adjunct to the preoperative imaging of perforator flaps. Fiducial marker registration was able to be achieved in all cases, can be successfully achieved with a low and predictable number of fiducial markers, is highly accurate, and was the only reliable registration process in our experience.
At the anterior approach lumbar surgery of trans-peritoneum, we should choose the right-hand side incision; the SHP should be pushed aside carefully from right to left along intervertebral disc. The accurate surgical plane was at the deeper layer of autonomical nerve fascia; we also could lift the complete autonomical nerve layer which lies behind the aorta and lumbar sacral promontory, so that the autonomic nerve could be preserved.
The clinical importance of these connections is especially noticed during the radical neck dissection as it may lead to the development of the shoulder-arm syndrome.
Combining volume-rendering reconstruction with surface rendering reconstruction can overcome some of the defects of both rendering reconstructions. The reconstructed liver and the main internal structures are realistic, which demonstrate the natural shape and exact position of the structures. They provide an accurate anatomical model for Chinese adult and also provide a basis for performing virtual hepatic operation.
[corrected] The 3D model of the Usutu virus helicase exhibits in silico all known structural characteristics of the Flaviviridae viral family helicase enzymes and could provide the platform for further de novo structure-based design of novel anti-Usutu agents.
Common carotid and common femoral IMT showed similar correlation with the FHS risk score. Additionally, the combination of IMT from both arterial sites was found to have similar correlation with the FHS risk score to carotid IMT alone.
Our results show that routine treatment with statin (atorvastatin 20 mg/day), which is effective in reducing the level of cholesterol, does not produce an improvement in walking performance in patients with peripheral arterial disease.
Regular screening for thrombosis is indicated even in asymptomatic tumour patients because asymptomatic venous thrombosis is frequent, can lead to pulmonary embolism and has to be treated like symptomatic venous thrombosis. This is particularly true for metastasization during chemotherapy, surgical interventions, or radiation.
Breast, colonic, haematological and skin cancer were mainly associated with superficial thrombophlebitis in our patients. In case of a thrombophlebitis without a known malignancy a thorough clinical examination with special regard to skin, breast and abdomen is mandatory.
Strength of dorsiflexion seems to be the main driving factor of normal venous flow and range of ankle movement is impaired in patients with pathological venous reflux. Further prospective studies should clarify if additional strengthening of ankle dorsiflexors should be included in well established venous training programs.
The dilemma of positive scintigraphic evidence of colonic bleeding with negative arteriography can be resolved with the use of a metal marker during the scintigram to guide superselective angiography. Although in our small series of patients this technique appears to be simple and effective, further clinical investigation is warranted with a larger patient population. This technique may offer a role in therapy in coordination with the colorectal surgeon for the high risk patient in an otherwise life threatening situation.
CpG ODN could significantly promote the maturation of dendritic cells in peripheral blood in CHB patients.
Early hyperbaric oxygen could inhibit nerve cell apoptosis suffered cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury and improve the function of learning and memory.
Operation as early as possible is the only way to rescue patients' lives threatened by infected pseudoaneurysms of femoral artery caused by narcotics injection. Thorough debridement and drainage, revascularization between external iliac artery and superficial femoral artery using band artificial blood vessel, and controlling infection are therapeutic modus operandi. Ligation of external iliac artery or femoral artery is also a feasible measure to rescue patients' lives when pseudoaneurysms are infected severely.
A protein expression profile of LCM purified NPC tissues has been established for the first time, which provides useful information and source for proteomic study of NPC.
Left ventricle remodeling and hemodynamic changes in the Beagle dog CHF models produced by rapid right ventricular pacing after myocardial infarction are similar to the changes observed in CHF of human beings.
In vitro Notch signaling may inhibit retinal stem cells differentiation. Inhibiting Notch signaling in vitro may promote differentiation to neurons and partially inhibit glial differentiation.
GJB2 mutation is a major cause for NSHL. The most common-spot in Chinese patients with NSHL is c.235delC. The unreported missense mutation is c.344T&gt;G.
One month after the earthquake, the victims suffered psychologically. PTSD symptoms, anxiety and depression symptoms were their major mental problems, more attention to especially women victims. The protection factors include dispersing victims to the secure place as soon as possible, expanding and strengthening society support. Early psychological interventions will help victims to raise their psychological endurance and prevent PTSD effectively.
Structural change in the protein caused by point mutation may be the reason for tumorigenesis of astrocytoma.
As(2)O(3) and ADM alone or combined can inhibit the proliferation, induce cell apoptosis, and downregulate the expression of mutant p53 in vitro. As(2)O(3) combined with ADM has synergistic anti-lymphoma cell effect in vitro. As(2)O(3) has no significant effect on the concentration of ADM on the Raji cells, but can enhance the chemosensitivity of Raji cells, and its mechanism may be that it can downregulate the expression of mutant p53.
Repeated lymphadenbiopsy is helpful for AITL diagnosis. Routine histological and immunohistochemical examinations (especially including CXCL13) play significant role in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of AITL.
The effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced cervical cancinoma is good. Surgery after chemotherapy can improve the prognosis and 5-year survival rate.
The mRNA and protein expressions of NMBR reach a peak at the onset of labor. NMBR may play an important role in the parturition via NF-kappaB P65-IL-6 signal transduction pathway. It may also influence the onset of labor by regulating HSP70, but this role does not rely on P65 pathway.
The active efflux gene qac gene in MRSA is detected by hem-nested PCR. The proportion of qac gene positive strains is high in clinical practice, which is related to its multi-antibiotic resistance.
The spectra wave shapes of SVC flow velocity in the PAH groups were distinguished from those of the control which may have some diagnostic value for PAH.The peak velocities and VTI of S waves during inspiration, D waves, AR waves and VR waves of SVC flow Doppler in the PAH groups are different from the control. The ratio of Vexp/Vins of S wave may be a non-invasive quantitative index to detect PAH.
Tongxinluo capsules have obvious beneficial effect on endothelial function and anti-inflammation in acute coronary syndrome patients undergoing PCI, by directly acting on the endothelium and indirectly inhibiting inflammation.
Huangqi Fuzhengtang could improve the immune function in the immunosuppressive mice.
Adiponectin is the independent predictor of BMD.
Alendronate is effective and well tolerated for GIO.
Findings suggest that recruitment efforts aimed at increasing the representation of Blacks should be aware of the barriers among those who are less educated, and involve interactive community collaborations, to fully address the mistrust in this population.
In 14 patients with symptomatic factor V Leiden who underwent cardiac surgery, we observed a considerable number of fatal and nonfatal thromboembolic events in the perioperative period and during a 32 months' follow-up. As conducted in three patients, continued anticoagulation with coumarin was safe and prevented perioperative thromboembolic events.
This report identified an outcome improvement after staged palliation of HLHS, attributed to an increase in experience and expertise gained over time. Lower operative weight, ascending aortic size, prolonged duration of cardiopulmonary bypass, and hypothermic circulatory arrest were identified to significantly influence early mortality after the Norwood procedure.
Coronary insufficiency after reconstruction of the aortic root is an uncommon but acutely life-threatening occurrence. This lethal condition may present with difficulty in weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass; echocardiographic signs of major wall motion abnormalities; and electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia, pump failure, and ventricular arrhythmias. Rescue CABG in this situation is life-saving. Immediate rescue CABG should be performed if coronary ischemia is suspected after composite graft replacement of the aortic root.
The prevalence of parathyroid incidentaloma was 0.4% (24=6496) in a large series of patients referred for suspected thyroid nodules. The use of FNA-PTH combined with FNAB can help clinicians accurately diagnose parathyroid incidentalomas at the time of US-guided FNAB.
Benzoyl peroxide has a proven track record of safety and efficacy for the treatment of acne. Recent discoveries have provided new methods of increasing the efficacy and tolerability of topical BPO, making it useful as monotherapy for mild acne or as an adjunct in the treatment of moderate to severe acne vulgaris.
Photodynamic therapy is an emerging remedy for patients with acne vulgaris resistant to standard treatment, particularly in patients with skin of color who are more sensitive to post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. In this African-American patient, 20% aminolevulinic acid/blue-light photodynamic therapy was effective in treating facial acne vulgaris.
A diagnosis of fatty liver on ultrasound in an asymptomatic person should alert us of metabolic syndrome and its progression to cardiovascular disease. NAFLD may be considered as the hepatic component of metabolic syndrome.
Prevalence of NAFLD and NASH in our cohort of type 2 DM patients is high and increases with multiple components of metabolic syndrome. NASH and advanced fibrosis can occur in diabetic patients without any symptoms, signs or routine laboratory test abnormalities.
The primary source of grief and depression appeared to be related to the recipient's "loss of imagined future" (ie, the life that she anticipated after transplant). Study findings have potential implications for the provision of care, information, and support for patients and their families before and after transplantation and for future related research.
Practices that required change to comply with identified best practice were investigated, and clinical practice for the outpatient medical management of potential liver transplant recipients with chronic liver disease were developed collaboratively. These guidelines have been accepted and are being implemented within the gastroenterology and hepatology department at the Princess Alexandra Hospital.
Antibody responses were similar in consecutively measured years in lung transplant subjects. Annual influenza vaccination in lung transplant subjects produces similar immune responses in 2 consecutive years, indicating that these patients are not at significantly increased risk of vaccine failure.
Interventions focusing on medication-taking skills, habit formation, and resources for problem solving may improve immunosuppressive medication adherence and clinical outcomes in kidney transplant recipients.
When examined in the context of other recent research, these findings argue for continued development and implementation of public education campaigns for organ donation, with an emphasis on repeated exposure over time.
Dialysis staff encouragement is important in improving fluid control adherence.
Skin flaps with pedicles, multiple transplantations if necessary, can repair deep wounds satisfactorily in lower extremities after deep burn or trauma injury.
Skin flap transposition can be still considered as the major effective method in repair of massive deep skin and soft tissue injury. On the premises of high survival rate, free skin flap transposition can be considered as the first choice.
The blood supply of thoracic skin flap is abundant and constant, which is an ideal method for repair of tissue defects and deformities in jaw and neck after taking into account some factors, such as the demand of the patient, general physical condition, and the size of the defect.
Latissimus dorsi flap in various forms can be satisfactory for repair of large skin and soft tissue defects in lower extremities.
Pectoralis major muscle island myocutaneous flap has the advantage of large tissue mass, with thin and flat muscle belly, and rich blood supply, which is suitable for repair of large deep tissue defect in jaw and neck.
Sural nerve and blood vessel nourished reverse island skin flap or myocutaneous flap transplantation is an effective treatment for repair of soft tissue defect of lower leg and foot.
Cx40/43 can regulate the SMA endothelium-dependent vascular contractive response through [Ca2+]i of VSMC after hemorrhagic shock.
The intervention with TREM-1 vshRNA can effectively decrease hepatic level of TREM-1 in septic mice induced by Bacteroides fragilis, inhibit inflammatory response, and improve the survival rate.
Insulin may inhibit apoptosis after burn by down-regulating secretion of apoptotic ligands.
Burn complicated with depression can reduce LMA, which may be due to a decrease in NMDA in dentate gyrus.
CTGF is one of the most important downstream efforts for TGF-beta 1 in inducing the transdifferentiation of HSFb.
MP-1 can alleviate LPS-induced acute hepatic injury in mice, which may be associated with its neutralization of LPS and attenuation of synthesis and release of inflammatory mediators.
Intestinal epithelial barrier dysfunction after hypoxia can be mediated by MLCK.
The incidence, nature and causes of injuries in southern hemisphere professional club rugby played under IRB Experimental Law Variations were similar to those for professional club rugby in the northern hemisphere and Rugby World Cup played under the previous Laws of Rugby.
Vasectomy can be performed safely and effectively by junior doctors as an outpatient procedure under local anaesthesia, and should be actively promoted in South Africa as a safe and effective form of male contraception.
Comparison of the currently calculated reference ranges with published data and reference values in use indicated that a separate ethnic-specific reference range should be introduced for the percentage/absolute neutrophil count and percentage lymphocytes. In addition, locally derived reference ranges for red cell distribution width (RDW) and CD4 percentage of lymphocytes should be implemented for routine diagnostic testing.
There is a high incidence of rotavirus infection in Sierra Leone, with rotavirus causing 37.5% of the gastroenteritis in this study. Patients with rotavirus gastroenteritis almost all had severe diarrhoea. The high incidence of rotavirus infection and the severity of the disease presentation make the institution of a rotavirus vaccine programme in Sierra Leone imperative.
The outbreak's primary cause was failure to vaccinate enough of the population to prevent endemic measles transmission. Although vaccine effectiveness might have been lower in HIV-infected than in uninfected children, population vaccine effectiveness remained high.
The costs of providing secondary level care for patients on or immediately preceding ART initiation can be significant and should be included in the government's strategic planning: (i) so that the service can be expanded to meet current and future needs; and (ii) to avoid crowding out other secondary level health services.
Higher BMIs as well as central obesity are independently associated with higher levels of CRP.
There is a high prevalence of obesity and metabolic syndrome among Kanye Seventh-day Adventist Hospital workers. We recommend the implementation of programmes to screen these risk factors by means of routine medical exams and improving the lifestyles of Botswana health care workers. The study findings could be the basis for future research among hospital staff and the general population.
The SASH study shows relatively high 12-month and lifetime prevalence rates. These findings have significant implications for planning mentalhealth services.
There is a substantial burden of untreated mental disorders in the South African population, across all provinces and even in those with substantial impairment. Greater allocation of resources to mental health services and more community awareness initiatives are needed to address the unmet need.
Epidemiological patterns of use for alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, other drugs and extra-medical drugs provide the first nationally representative data. New findings on race and exploratory data on time trends provide a foundation for future epidemiological work on drug use patterns across birth cohorts and population subgroups in South Africa.
In comparison with data from other countries, South Africa has lower rates of depression than the USA but higher rates than Nigeria. The findings are broadly consistent with previous findings in South Africa. These findings are the first step in documenting a level of need for care in a context of significant under-funding of mental health services and research in South Africa
Stressful life events, distal and proximal, contribute significantly and independently to the prediction of major psychiatric disorders among South Africans, underscoring the importance of screening adversities in adults with common mental disorders, and of providing appropriate adjunctive interventions.
The risk of psychiatric disorders is elevated among persons who report experiences of discrimination. These associations are more robust for chronic than for acute discrimination and for non-racial than for racial discrimination. Perceived discrimination constitutes an important stressor that should be taken into account in the aetiology of psychiatric disorders.
Socio-demographic profiles of perpetrators of HRV and DV in South Africa differ. While the causal relationship between perpetration and psychiatric disorders deserves further study, it is possible that some HRV and DV perpetrators were themselves once victims. The association between accidental perpetration and mood disorder also deserves further attention.
The lack of appropriate forms of behaviour change to prevent HIV transmission, despite increased levels of HIV-related fear and perceived risk, underscores the need for HIV risk reduction interventions for individuals living with common mental disorders in South Africa.
These findings suggest that the major sources of TB transmission to young people are smear-positive pulmonary TB patients aged 0 to 59.
Results of contact investigation and successive LTBI treatment showed that the prevention of secondary cases was effective, despite of some over-diagnosis of LTBI by TST.
To intervene in early resignation of NGNs, job stressors should be minimized to improve subjective health status; while simultaneously raising job readiness.
This study revealed that having good childbirth experiences inhibits negative awareness of motherhood and abusive behavior towards children. These results show that it is important for mothers to be provided with appropriate care during pregnancy and labor for preventing child abuse and parenting stress and anxiety. More research is needed to identify the determinants of childbirth
Fall incidence varies according to sex, age and season. We can conclude that the causes and places of falls are related to physical activity and season. Fire department ambulance records can be utilized to analyze fall situation in local areas. Such analyses should lead to new approaches to fall prevention measures.
Mechanistic models create a framework for the study of pharmacokinetic changes in infancy. Understanding these changes allows a target concentration approach to therapy and potential for reduced toxicity. The target concentration may be undefined because of a paucity of effect measures.
Group 1 visual analogue pain scale scores were significantly higher than those in group 2 (P &lt; 0.05). Group 1 patients with infratentorial craniotomy showed higher pain scores than supratentorial craniotomy patients (P &lt; 0.05). No significant differences were observed in mean blood pressure between groups and subgroups (P &gt; 0.05). We found no correlation between visual analogue scale scores, mean blood pressure and heart rate (P &gt; 0.05).
'Scheduled' analgesia with lornoxicam was more effective for treating post-craniotomy pain than 'on request' analgesia with lornoxicam.
Propofol does not induce DNA damage in WBCs and does not alter MDA in plasma of patients.
These results confirm the analgesic efficacy of IBPB for shoulder surgery. Nonetheless, the combination of intraarticular and subacromial infiltration, studied for the first time, appears to be a clinically valid alternative with no clinical meaningful adverse effects.
IMT correlates better than FMD with established cardiovascular risk factors in this cohort of HIV patients. Standardization of protocols for FMD and IMT will facilitate the comparison of results across studies.
The use of a MADM may be a beneficial tool to assist in making formulary or preferred therapeutic agent decisions.
Integrated workplace primary care and pharmacy services are one way to increase medication adherence. These services have the potential not only to save healthcare dollars, but also improve the lives of chronically ill patients.
Removing higher potency statins from the formulary did not ignificantly change a population's fasting lipid panel except for a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein. Although multiple factors may have contributed to this effect, the results of this investigation suggest that changing formulary statins will not alter the surrogate lipoprotein markers associated with poor cardiovascular outcomes.
The educational intervention did not significantly improve medication compliance or persistence with osteoporosis drugs.
The pairing of automated letters and telephone calls in any order was more effective than any single intervention in promoting compliance with diabetes monitoring tests. The relative cost of the letter-call and call-letter approaches to outreach should be considered to determine which is preferred in any given situation.
Healthcare costs among Medicaid beneficiaries with CHF would be lower if more patients were adherent to prescribed medication regimens. Researchers should reconsider whether a binary threshold for adherence is sufficient to examine the association of adherence with outcomes and healthcare costs.
Generic prescribing was associated with modestly improved adherence in 2 of 5 study conditions. Copayments of $0 were associated with improved adherence across all conditions.
The variability in adherence estimates derived from different definitions may substantially impact qualitative conclusions about concurrent adherence to related medications. Because the measures we propose have different underlying assumptions, the choice of technique should depend on why adherence is being evaluated.
These findings indicate that BPS has a therapeutic effect on diabetic nephropathy in the OLETF rat, which suggests a potential application of this drug in the treatment of human diabetic nephropathy.
Such trends are likely based on organ need, as published patient outcomes and evidence-based guidelines are lacking for this unique group of patients. We propose the need for a study to formally evaluate the outcome of stone formers who donate a kidney in order to systematically examine whether appropriately selected stone formers can safely donate.
Although this study is not a prospective trial, our results indicate that aggressive therapeutic intervention for IgAN over the past decade has improved actual renal outcome.
We propose that MBG is involved in the production of a 'vascular leak' in our rat model of preeclampsia.
1,25(OH)(2)D(3) reduced the PAN-induced podocyte apoptosis and loss of nephrin in PAN nephropathy rat. The anti-apoptotic effects of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3 )on podocytes may be partly attributable to activation of a PI3K/Akt survival pathway.
The study timeframe coincided with or pre-dated release of KDOQI guidelines. Many opportunities for improvement in CKD patient care are evident. Future releases of NHANES data could be used to assess whether improvement occurs.
Screening hemodialysis patients by means of ABI and baPWV but not FMD or NMD provides complementary information in identifying a high-risk population in these patients.
This study provides evidence that lower 25(OH)D and higher CRP levels are independently associated with lower hemoglobin concentrations in kidney disease subjects not requiring dialysis.
In the critical postischemic window of BMDC differentiation to myofibroblasts, CsA did not promote BMDC differentiation to myofibroblasts, suggesting that, in the clinical setting, CsA is not involved in myofibroblastic differentiation of BMDC.
Smad7 gene therapy is able to inhibit established peritoneal fibrosis in a rat model of PD. Results from this study suggest that Smad7 may be a therapeutic agent for the treatment of peritoneal fibrosis associated with PD.
The present study found no support for adding a personalized health-risk assessment emphasizing lung health and CO exposure to generic cessation advice and counseling for community-based smokers not otherwise seeking treatment.
Developing QI infrastructure appears to be an effective strategy for improving FOBT follow-up when this work is followed by process improvements. Increasing gastroenterology capacity may be more difficult than improving processes of care.
Depending on the MVPA criteria used, these data suggest that overweight adolescents are likely to meet national MVPA recommendations if they accumulate between 10,000 and 11,700 steps per day.
Although mammography capacity in the U.S. may be adequate on average, the unequal distribution of facilities results in large rural areas without facilities. Screening rates in these areas are suboptimal and are associated with late-stage diagnosis of breast cancer.
Home smoking bans were not widely adopted in this community in China. Future interventions should focus on the community and social environment in order to promote home smoking bans.
Since 2001, the PHSR literature on PHEP issues has grown at about 33% per year. However, most studies lack a rigorous design, raising questions about the validity of the results.
The study found that this multimodal reminder system could be effectively implemented and maintained in a large health system. If widely implemented, this intervention could substantially improve community mammography screening.
Influenza vaccination coverage continues to be below the national objective of 60% for people aged 18-64 years with asthma as a high-risk condition. Increased state and national efforts are needed to improve influenza vaccination levels among this population and particularly among those aged 18-49 years.
Previously considered a transient behavior, social smoking is also a stable consumption pattern. Focused clinical questions to detect social smoking are needed and may include, "Have you smoked any cigarettes or used any tobacco products in the past month?" as opposed to "Are you a smoker?" Clinicians should recognize that social smokers might be motivated to quit after education on the dangers of secondhand smoke rather than on personal health risks or with pharmacotherapy.
There is little evidence for effectiveness of family involvement methods in programs for promoting physical activity in children, because of the heterogeneity of study design, study quality, and outcome measures used. There is a need to build an evidence base of more-predictive models of child physical activity that include parent and child mediating variables and procedures that can effect changes in these variables for future family-based physical activity interventions.
The use of spatial scan statistics to identify significant clustering of health behaviors such as active transportation adds to the more traditional regression analysis that examines associations between behavior and environmental factors by identifying specific geographic areas with unusual levels of the behavior independent of predefined administrative units.
The implication of the glyoxylate bypass in the pathology of various microorganisms makes malate synthase G an attractive new target for antibacterial therapy. The purification procedure and biochemical characterization assist in the development of antibacterial components directed against this target in P. aeruginosa.
The calculation of shortest positive/negative paths and cycles in interaction graphs is an important method for network analysis in Systems Biology. This contribution draws the attention of the community to this important computational problem and provides a number of new algorithms, partially specifically tailored for biological interaction graphs. All algorithms have been implemented in the CellNetAnalyzer framework which can be downloaded for academic use at http://www.mpi-magdeburg.mpg.de/projects/cna/cna.html.
The methods introduced apply very generally, to any similarity matrix describing gene expression. One of the proposed methods, SUMCOV, performed well for all models simulated.
These results indicate that DADLE protected against necrotic and apoptotic cell death processes associated with ischemia-reperfusion injury. The present study demonstrates that delta opioids are crucially involved in stroke, suggesting that the opioid system is important in the study of brain injury and protection.
Our results suggest that the TGFBR1*6A allele does not confer an increased risk of colorectal cancer in the Spanish population.
P-gp activity is not a crucial mechanism of chemoresistance to AVE9633. For patients whose resistance to conventional anthracycline AML regimens is related to ABC protein expression, a combination with AVE9633 could be beneficial. Other mechanisms such as microtubule alteration could play an important role in chemoresistance to AVE9633.
Our results indicate that 249(Ser) mutation is a HCC important factor of carcinogenesis in Brazil and it is associated to large and poorly differentiated tumors.
This study suggests that CXCR4 may be a prognostic marker in NSCLC, and provides hypothesis-generating results, which may be important in determining metastatic potential. In future studies, we will prospectively evaluate the prognostic significance of pan-cytokeratin/CXCR4+ cells, and determine the mechanisms involved in the regulation of CXCR4 expression on tumor cells in a larger patient population.
Unstable fibrous caps are more likely to contain MPO-positive cells, neutrophils, and iron-containing macrophages than fibrous caps of stable fibroatheromas. MPO-positive cells in thrombi adjacent to disrupted plaques are associated with occlusive thrombi and are more numerous in diabetic patients.
Our observations demonstrate that, through the use of an appropriate internal control and the direct analysis of multiple sites of target mRNA, samples that do not conform to the conventional rRNA criteria can still be utilized to obtain biologically/clinically relevant data. Although, this strategy clearly has application for improved assessment of FMR1 mRNA toxicity in blood, it may also have more general implications for gene expression studies in fresh and archival tissues.
Given the extensive phenotypic characterization, this study will provide valuable insights into the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise as well as the efficacy, feasibility and safety of such interventions in this age group.
The genome of P. patens encodes all of the basic components necessary for a rapid auxin response. The spatial separation of the Q-rich activator domain and DNA-binding domain suggests an alternative mechanism of transcriptional control in P. patens distinct from the mechanism seen in flowering plants. Significantly, the genome of S. moellendorffii is predicted to encode proteins suitable for both methods of regulation.
The use of sequence data at a fine-scale of resolution in this species has provided novel insights into the processes that have resulted in the accumulation of genetic divergence among populations. This divergence is likely to result from an interplay between a limited dispersal ability for this copepod and the temporal instability of copepod habitat. Both shorter-term processes such as the extinction/recolonization dynamics of copepod pools and longer-term processes such as geological uplift of coastline and sea level changes appear to have impacted the patterns of differentiation. Some patterns of sequence variation are consistent with selection acting upon the loci used in this study; however, it appears that most phylogeographic patterns are the result of history and not selection on these genes in this species.
Available reports do not provide sufficient relevant information of the clinical outcome of duodenal stenting. In future studies, these relevant issues should be addressed to allow improved evaluation of the effect of stent treatment.
The disparity between African American males and white males is not explained by ecological-level trends in BMI. Further research to identify the factors responsible for this disparity, possibly including anatomic fat distribution, are required.
Changes in gene expression that normally occur during culture under conditions that support L3 development and molting are prevented or delayed by radiation. This may explain the enhanced immunogenicity of L3ir. Gene Ontology and KEGG analyses revealed altered pathways between L3 types. Energy and "immune pathways" are up-regulated and may be needed for L3i invasion and survival, while growth and development are priorities for L3c. This study has improved our understanding of molecules involved in parasite invasion and immune evasion, potential targets of protective immunity, and molecules required for parasite growth and development.
The meta-analysis is valuable in providing improved ability to dissect the complex genetic structure of traits, and distinguish between pleiotropy and close linkage. It also provides relatively small target regions for the identification of positional candidate genes.
Our data demonstrate the presence of IncFI plasmids within the prevailing E. coli population in a hospital setting and suggest that the dissemination of CTX-M-15 allele is associated to lateral transfer of these well-adapted, conjugative IncFI plasmids among various E. coli genotypes.
Our data indicate that the flow cytometric cytokine-secreting cell detection technique may be envisaged as an additional tool for TB diagnosis allowing the analysis of the immune response to M. tuberculosis-related antigens in the different stages of TB.
Given the difficulties in estimating HIV incidence, a close monitoring of HIV prevalence and incidence rates during a trial is warranted. The on-going modification of recruitment strategies based on the regular analysis of HIV rates appeared to be an efficient method for targeting populations at greatest risk of HIV infection and increasing study power in the Nigeria trial.
The majority of the Malay and Indian H. pylori isolates share the same origin while the Malaysian Chinese H. pylori is distinctive. The Malay population, known to have a low infection rate of H. pylori, was likely to be initially H. pylori free and gained the pathogen only recently from cross infection from other populations.
The study is designed to identify targets for rehabilitation-, social- and medical-intervention strategies that promote and maintain healthy ageing in people with cardiovascular and mental health conditions, two of the seven Australian national health priority areas. This will rectify the paucity of information internationally around optimal clinical practice and social policy in this area.
Such mechanisms explain how gender biases in some DAT-dependent diseases can occur.
Genomic region covering 67 kb of human BDNF gene, 84 kb of upstream and 17 kb of downstream sequences is sufficient to drive tissue-specific and kainic acid-induced expression of the reporter gene in transgenic mice. The pattern of expression of the transgene is highly similar to BDNF gene expression in mouse and human. This is the first study to show that human BDNF gene is regulated by neural activity.
A rapid and efficient tool for gene function investigation in L. corniculatus was developed, combining the simplicity and high efficiency of the Superroot regeneration system and the availability of A. rhizogenes-mediated transformation. This system was improved by validating some parameters influencing the transformation frequency, which could reach 92% based on GUS detection. The combination of the highly efficient transformation and the regeneration system of Superroot provides a valuable tool for functional genomics studies in L. corniculatus.
Reduced levels of Arabidopsis DNA ligase 1 in the silenced lines are sufficient to support plant development but result in retarded growth and reduced cell size, which may reflect roles for AtLIG1 in both replication and repair. The finding that DNA ligase 1 plays an important role in DSB repair in addition to its known function in SSB repair, demonstrates the existence of a previously uncharacterised novel pathway, independent of the conserved NHEJ. These results indicate that DNA ligase 1 functions in both DNA replication and in repair of both ss and dsDNA strand breaks in higher plants.
This study represents the most extensive survey of the fate of genes duplicated by allopolyploidy in individuals from natural populations. Our results indicate that the road to genome downsizing and ultimate genetic diploidization may occur quickly through homoeolog loss, but with some genes consistently maintained as duplicates. Other genes consistently show evidence of homoeolog loss, suggesting repetitive aspects to polyploid genome evolution.
In a German setting, atosiban is cost saving versus betamimetics in the treatment of preterm labour from the payer, hospital and combined perspectives. Cost savings stem from the superior safety profile of atosiban.
More than 1% of the Iranian urban population older than 20 years develops Type 2 diabetes each year. Combination of IFG and IGT was the strongest predictor of incident diabetes among the modifiable risk factors.
The problem of low vitamin D status in African American men may be more severe than previously reported. Future efforts to increase vitamin D recommendations and intake, such as through supplementation, are warranted to improve vitamin D status in this particularly vulnerable population.
The lower the ratio of fast-food restaurants and convenience stores to grocery stores and produce vendors near people's homes, the lower the odds of being obese. Thus the proximity of the obesogenic environment to individuals appears to be an important factor in their risk for obesity.
The economic immigrants have better parameters in relation to lifestyles, but they have a poor perception of their health. Despite the fact that immigrant population shows higher percentages of emergency attendance and hospitalization than the indigenous population, with respect to the use of healthcare resources, their usage of healthcare resources such as drugs, influenza vaccinations or visits to the dentist is lower.
In this cross sectional study in patients with CF, DLNO and DLCO reflected CT-morphological alterations of the lung better than other measures. Thus the combined diffusing capacity for NO and CO may play a future role for the non-invasive, functional assessment of structural alterations of the lung in CF.
The two main factors affecting the analysis of stochastic simulations are: (1) the selection of time intervals to compute or average state variables and (2) the number of simulations generated to evaluate the system behavior.
Filaggrin gene defects increase the risk of developing allergic sensitisation, atopic eczema, and allergic rhinitis. Evidence of the relation between filaggrin gene mutations and atopic eczema was strong, with people manifesting increased severity and persistence of disease. Filaggrin gene mutations also increased the risk of asthma in people with atopic eczema. Restoring skin barrier function in filaggrin deficient people in early life may help prevent the development of sensitisation and halt the development and progression of allergic disease.
The increase in incidence of breast cancer was closely related to the introduction of screening and little of this increase was compensated for by a drop in incidence of breast cancer in previously screened women. One in three breast cancers detected in a population offered organised screening is overdiagnosed.
The use of a proprioceptive training programme after usual care of an ankle sprain is effective for the prevention of self reported recurrences. This proprioceptive training was specifically beneficial in athletes whose original sprain was not medically treated.
A LORETA inverse solution identified the neural generators of this effect in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPF), left and right fusiform gyri and bilateral superior temporal cortices. The tentative hypothesis is advanced that these activations might reflect the modulatory effects exerted by the fronto/temporal circuit for the suppression of irrelevant information.
Many factors influence the current working patterns of orthodontists in the United Kingdom. However, it may be the inequitable regional distribution of orthodontists throughout the United Kingdom which is of greatest significance to orthodontic workforce planning for the future.
0.2 mg/kg buccal midazolam provided some evidence for reducing anxiety in the most dentally anxious patients. However, induction behaviour, psychological morbidity and subsequent dental attendance were not found to alter.
The results of the current study indicated that RT in addition to surgery improves OS, DSS, and LC for patients with OHN who have positive/uncertain resection margins.
Matched analysis (by age, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, and additional cytogenetic abnormality) indicated worse OS and EFS in patients with secondary CBF AML.
Immunocompromised children with a CVC and a fever who presented with vomiting were more likely to have bacteremia than similar children who presented without vomiting. Gram-negative organisms were more likely to be associated with emesis than Gram-positive organisms. The absence of severe neutropenia was not associated with a decreased likelihood of bacteremia. These findings may be useful in identifying children who are at high risk for bacteremia and in determining initial, empiric therapy.
Unlike invasive carcinoma, DCIS is diagnosed at a later age in AA patients. Except for larger size, DCIS does not have a more aggressive histology in AA patients. Treatment and recurrence rate were similar in both groups, as was death due to breast cancer. OS, however, was worse in AA women.
Although survivors with NHL who had active disease reported more negative outcomes compared with off-treatment survivors, the length of time after diagnosis did not appear to matter with regard to outcomes for STS or LTS. In addition, mixed results from comparisons with general population norms suggested the need for supportive care for this diverse survivorship group.
The results of the current study indicated that tumor budding in the invasive front of tumors correlated significantly with clinical response and prognosis of patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinomas who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy. However, the mechanism of tumor budding in the invasion front of esophageal squamous cell carcinomas treated with chemotherapy was not clarified.
This instrument will be of use where there is an interest in examining the impact of cancer not only on cancer survivors but also on their identified principal support persons.
The authors characterized a novel compound, NV-128, which inhibits mTOR and promotes caspase-independent cell death. The current results indicated that inhibition of mTOR may represent a relevant pathway for the induction of cell death in cells resistant to the classic caspase-dependent apoptosis. These findings demonstrate the possibility of using therapeutic drugs, such as NV-128, which may have beneficial effects in patients with chemoresistant ovarian cancer.
Multidisciplinary management of extremity STS achieves high rates of local control. Myxoid liposarcoma is associated with higher rates of local control compared with other STS subtypes, after combined surgery and radiation, suggesting a particular radiosensitivity that can be exploited to improve oncologic outcome in appropriate cases.
A significant and highly stable association between childhood physical abuse and cancer was found even when adjusting for 3 clusters of risk factors. Further research focusing on the potential mechanisms linking childhood abuse and cancer is needed.
Although women are more likely to have earlier stage disease, among patients with medically inoperable stage I NSCLC, women still have a better OS. Along with known prognostic factors, including age, weight loss, and stage, sex remained significant on multivariate analysis of OS, suggesting that sex is a determinant of outcome in NSCLC patients receiving radiation.
Pretreatment PET cannot only potentially diagnose the extent of disease, but also may be predictive of patient survival after esophageal cancer resection.
NASH was present in 24 of 1105 patients with breast cancer (2.2%). Seven patients had NASH before they were diagnosed with breast cancer, and 17 patients developed NASH after their diagnosis. NASH was associated with the use of tamoxifen and improved when tamoxifen was stopped.
Pretest surveys of medical interpreters revealed several areas of important knowledge gaps about cancer and clinical trials. Posttest assessment showed that training can be useful to improving short-term accuracy, but that more work is needed to develop curricula and testing measures to address these knowledge gaps.
uPAR MoAb therapy impaired CRC tumor growth in the liver in both small-volume and large-volume disease models.
The results confirm that carboplatin has similar activity to cisplatin in otherwise similar regimens. Five-year survival data are comparable to those reported in other recent studies, including high-dose chemotherapy studies. Of note is the marked activity in CPCA and gross totally resected EP.
