For the diagnosis of food's allergens: broncho-stimulation test by foods; rhinomanometry with Broms' formula, spirometry and Rresp exam, audiometric and impedentiometric exam.
The seal around the tracheostomy is made with a newborn-size resuscitation mask, the hole of which is larger than the tracheal stoma. A sealing lubricant is applied to the soft rim of the mask and around the tracheostomy site, and adapters enable connection of the resuscitation mask and the large-bore PFT-equipment tubing. After affixing the adapters to the mask, we check that the seal is tight; if airleak is evident, more lubricant or a mask of different size or style may be necessary. Once a tight seal is achieved without airway compromise, the mask is attached to the PFT equipment and testing can begin. During testing, the patient should wear nose clips to prevent volume loss through the upper airway.
We tested this hypothesis in 30 mechanically ventilated adult patients with positive sputum cultures. We measured and compared the amount of bacteria present on an M-U catheter at the end of a 24-hour use period, the amount of bacteria present in the patient's sputum at that time, and the amount of bacteria present on a single-use (S-U) catheter at that time, after it had made one pass into the patient's airway. Organisms recovered and colony counts were also compared to results of a sputum culture obtained before the study began.
adenosine diphosphate induced human platelet aggregation was inhibited by gliclazide in high concentrations (0.5--2.0 mg/ml). In the same concentration range tolbutamide exhibited a slightly less pronounced inhibitory effect. Collagininduced human platelet aggregation was inhibited by gliclazide, glipizide and tolbutamide in a concentration range of 0.5--2.0 mg/ml. Gliclazide had a similar effect on rabbit platelets. In vivo studies: Both acute and seven days administration of gliclazide to rabbits resulted in prolonged primary and total hemostatic plug formation time both in arterioles and venules. Similar results were obtained with tolbutamide and glipizide. Experiments with laser-induced platelet plug formation in the rabbit ear chamber demonstrated that 100 mg gliclazide/kg body weight and 25 mg gliclazide/kg body weight during 7 days significantly reduced the number of platelet emboli formed during 10 minutes after laser injury.
Review of medical literature.
In this prospective series of 40 consecutive eyes we compared 20 eyes in 17 patients treated with combined phacoemulsification and glaucoma filtering surgery with the Ex-PRESS miniature glaucoma implant under a scleral flap with 20 matched control eyes in 20 patients who underwent combined cataract and glaucoma surgery with trabeculectomy.
A prospective study performed on a cohort of 37 patients undergoing cataract surgery by phacoemulsification with no intraoperative complications at the Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid. After surgery, 19 of the patients were randomly assigned to receive topical 0.1% dexamethasone (DEX group) as inflammatory treatment and the remaining 18 subjects were treated with 1% rimexolone ( RIMEX group) following the same regime. Twenty four hours and one month after surgery, visual acuity, conjunctival hyperaemia, anterior chamber cells, anterior chamber flare, intraocular pressure, corneal thickness and macular edema were determined in each patient.
The average RFNL thickness of patients who underwent cataract surgery was measured using the optical coherence tomography (OCT) III Stratus(R) before surgery, the day after and one month later. The data were analyzed using the SPSS 12.0 software. We used paired two tail student's t test for comparisons.
We report a case of keratolysis after vitreoretinal surgery and topical use of ketorolac tromethamine (Acular).
Audit of a large first trimester screening program.
Data on consecutive patients attending a first trimester screening program were collected. Those with PAPP-A levels &lt; or = 0.2 MoM were divided into three groups: &lt; or = 0.1 MoM; 0.11-0.15 MoM; and 0.16-0.2 MoM.
Participants with indication for elective caesarean section were randomly allocated to two groups. Group A (n = 200) women with intraoperative cervical dilatation; group B (n = 200) women with no intraoperative cervical dilatation.
One hundred nulliparous women between 35 and 37 weeks gestation were randomised.
Two 15-min structured education sessions, one week apart, utilising observation of the perineum and a vaginal examination to teach correct technique for relaxing the levator ani muscle and effective pushing.
Retrospective cohort study of 232 metropolitan and 67 rural infants born to mothers maintained on methadone throughout pregnancy for the treatment of opiate dependency, between January 2000 and December 2006. Medical records of identified mother/infant dyads were reviewed by evaluating 20 different maternal, obstetric and neonatal parameters.
Retrospective cohort of all stillbirths delivered between November 2005 and March 2008. Stillbirths were defined as no sign of life on delivery at &gt; or = 20 weeks gestation or 400 g birthweight if gestation is unknown. Data were collected via the hospital Perinatal Mortality Audit Committee (PMAC). Cause of death was classified by the PSANZ Perinatal Death Classification.
Surveys were sent to 23 birth centres. Questions included: types of procedures, equipment and pain relief available, staffing, funding, philosophies, physical characteristics and transfer procedures. Of the birth centres, 19 satisfied the inclusion criteria and 16 completed surveys.
A total of 551 cases with diagnostically adequate cervical biopsies and Pap tests performed concurrently were examined.
A questionnaire was distributed to tertiary students in Cairns asking about their knowledge of EC, its effectiveness and its availability over-the-counter in pharmacies, as well as their willingness to access EC themselves if indicated, in settings in which they may be known, and in those where they would be unknown.
A prospective observational study conducted between May 2005 and June 2006. All gynaecologists who attended 'hands-on' laparoscopic skills course held over a five-day period were assessed initially and at the end of the intensive course. Subjective assessment involved each attendee self-scoring their own knowledge in laparoscopy in different fields; this was done using visual analog scoring (VAS). Objective assessment was done through multiple choice questions (MCQs) and motor skill tasks. The difference between the performances of each of the candidates at pre- and post-course periods was evaluated using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. P-values &lt; 0.05 represented statistical significance.
Centre for Advanced Reproductive Endosurgery (CARE), Royal North Shore Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
A retrospective record review was undertaken in a private gynaecology practice in Brisbane, Australia, and included all women with EH treated with hysterectomy, oral progestins or LNG-IUS between January 2004 and April 2007. Histopathological findings from hysterectomy specimens or endometrial biopsies were used to calculate rates of regression of the EH.
Laboratory results of Hybrid Capture-II (Digene) HPV DNA and liquid-based cytology tests of consecutive women who had screening performed between January 2004 and December 2006 were studied retrospectively.
A prospective study of 727 community dwelling Veterans and war widows aged 70 years and over. The outcome was 6-month recall of any fall at 3-year follow-up. Baseline measurements were taken of common falls risk factors, and home hazards (using the HOME FAST). Changes in the prevalence of HOME FAST items were calculated and a logistic regression model was computed to determine predictors of falls at follow-up.
A descriptive, exploratory qualitative approach was used to examine NAs' experiences. Participants included six NAs from three RACFs in regional Western Australia. In-depth interviews focused on the NAs' experiences of providing care to older people in RACFs and in particular their experiences providing pain management for residents.
A total of 1500 home care clients were randomly selected and mailed a survey. Overall, 874 (58%) of those surveyed completed and returned the survey.
Using the data from three waves of the survey 'Well-being of Elderly in Anhui Province, China' conducted in 2001, 2003 and 2006, respectively, this study uses random effect logit models for men and women separately.
Participants completed IT at baseline, 6 months and 18 months. At 42 months, two groups of 15 elderly people matched for education and age (74-88 years) and selected for slower or faster baseline IT, completed a fourth estimate of IT and a practical assessment of everyday functioning (Timed Instrumental Activities of Daily Living - Adelaide).
Thirty-one healthy young, 33 healthy older and 22 balance-impaired older adults took part. Centre of pressure (COP) motion was measured before and immediately after participants undertook 14 minutes of self-paced, moderate intensity physical activity.
We have trained a powerful, state-of-the-art IE technology on a corpus of abstracts from the microbial literature in PubMed to automatically identify and categorize biologically relevant entities and predicative relations. These relations include: Genes/Gene Products and their Roles; Gene Mutations and the resulting Phenotypes; and Organisms and their associated Pathogenicity. Evaluations on blind datasets show an F-measure average of greater than 90% for entities (genes, operons, etc.) and over 70% for relations (gene/gene product to role, etc). This IE capability, combined with text indexing and relational database technologies, constitute the core of our recently deployed text mining application.
Tumor tissue from HCC patients with (n = 43) and without (n = 138) bone metastasis was subjected to immunohistochemical staining for CXCR4 using tissue microarrays. Immunoreactivity was evaluated semi-quantitatively. A receiver-operating characteristic-based approach and logistical regression analysis were used to determine the predictive value of clinicopathologic factors, including CXCR4 expression, in bone metastasis. Patient survival was analyzed by Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank tests.
A CRCT is developed using a Solomon four-group design (two intervention and two control groups) to evaluate the effects of using the SIPP. Radiotherapists, instead of cancer patients, are randomly allocated to the experimental or control groups. Within these groups, all included cancer patients are randomised into two subgroups: with and without pre-measurement. Self-reported assessments are conducted at four times: a pre-test at baseline before the first consultation and a post-test directly following the first consultation, and three and 12 months after baseline measurement. The primary outcome measures are the number and types of referrals of cancer patients with psychosocial problems to relevant (psychosocial) caregivers. The secondary outcome measures are patients' satisfaction with the radiotherapist-patient communication, psychosocial distress and quality of life. Furthermore, a process evaluation will be carried out. Data of the effect-evaluation will be analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle and data regarding the types of referrals to health care providers and patient satisfaction about the with radiotherapists will be analysed by means of descriptive techniques. The process evaluation data will also be analysed by means of descriptive techniques.
NKp30, NKp46, NKG2D, NKp80 and 2B4 expression was analyzed by flow cytometry on NK cells from 59 patients with cervical cancer and squamous intraepithelial lesions. NK cell cytotoxicity was evaluated in a 4 hour CFSE/7-AAD flow cytometry assay. HPV types were identified by PCR assays.
Following exposure of SKGT-4 cells to DCA, protein levels of COX-2, MAPK and PARP were examined by immunoblotting. AP-1 activity was assessed by mobility shift assay. DCA-induced toxicity was assessed by DNA fragmentation and MTT assay.
The Quick Identification of acute Chest pain Study (QICS) will investigate whether a combined use of specific symptoms and signs, electrocardiography, routine and new laboratory measures, adjunctive imaging including electron beam (EBT) computed tomography (CT) and contrast multislice CT (MSCT) will have a high diagnostic yield for patients with acute chest pain. All patients will be investigated according a standardized protocol in the Emergency Department. Serum and plasma will be frozen for future analysis for a wide range of biomarkers at a later time point. The primary endpoint is the safe recognition of low-risk chest pain patients directly at presentation. Secondary endpoint is the identification of a wide range of sensitive predictive clinical markers, chemical biomarkers and radiological markers in acute chest pain patients. Chemical biomarkers will be compared to quantitative CT measurements of coronary atherosclerosis as a surrogate endpoint. Chemical biomarkers will also be compared in head to head comparison and for their additional value.
Qualitative data were collected through three focus groups. Sessions were audio-taped and transcribed verbatim. Data were coded and sorted with themes identified using a constant comparison method. The study was undertaken through the regional academic referral center for adult diabetes care in Ottawa, Canada. Participants included 22 primary care physicians representing a variety of referral frequencies, practice types and settings.
Upon blood collection, dosimetry and irradiation were performed. Lymphocytes were isolated after whole-blood irradiation with 60Co gamma-rays in the dose range of 0-5 Gy for both interphase, and metaphase aberration studies. Induction of premature chromosome condensation in interphase cells was accomplished using a phosphatase inhibitor, calyculin-A. Metaphase spreads were harvested from short-term peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures following colcemid arrest and using an automated metaphase harvester and spreader. Aberration analysis in both interphase and metaphase spreads were done using FISH.
Eighty PD patients with psychotic episodes were compared to an age-matched control group of PD patients without psychotic episodes (n = 120) in a cross-sectional retrospective study.
A school-based survey was conducted using stratified random cluster sampling in Khartoum state, Sudan. Data was collected through interviews and clinical examination by a single examiner. DMFT was measured according to WHO criteria. Gingival index (GI) of Loe &amp; Silness and Plaque index (PI) of Silness &amp; Loe were used.
Twelve subjects with PTSD and 12 subjects without PTSD victims underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance imaging. All subjects performed encoding and retrieval memory tasks during the fMRI session. Voxel-based morphometry method was used to analyze gray-matter volume, and the Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM2) was used to analyze activated brain areas when performing tasks.
Cross-sectional data including measured weight and height and self-reported weight status collected from 448 adolescents in four Chicago Public Schools were used.
Meta-analysis of randomised trials.
Cochrane controlled trials register, Embase, and Medline. Data abstraction Two independent investigators identified studies on the clinical effects of statins compared with a placebo or control group and with follow-up of at least one year, at least 80% or more participants without established cardiovascular disease, and outcome data on mortality and major cardiovascular disease events. Heterogeneity was assessed using the Q and I(2) statistics. Publication bias was assessed by visual examination of funnel plots and the Egger regression test.
Prospective three year follow-up study within the framework of a primary care based, double blind, randomised, placebo controlled trial.
53 general practices in the Netherlands.
168 children aged 6 months to 2 years with acute otitis media.
Amoxicillin 40 mg/kg/day in three doses compared with placebo.
Recurrence of acute otitis media; referral to secondary care; ear, nose, and throat surgery.
Cervical transfer impedance was measured at 14 frequencies between 76 and 625 000 Hz from 11 pregnant subjects at term. Repeated measurements were taken with two probes (3 mm and 12 mm diameter) applied softly (approximately 0.7 Newton of force), and firmly (approximately 2.2 Newton) to the surface of the cervix by two observers. The intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC), coefficient of variation (CV) and repeatability standard deviations (SD) were derived from these measurements and compared.
We calculated standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) for suicide in 206,129 men and 211,443 women diagnosed with cancer in South East England between 1996 and 2005, relative to suicide rates in the general population.
We performed real-time TaqMan quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and immunohistochemistry to examine expression levels of UHRF1 in bladder and kidney cancers.
To estimate the frequency of the above mutations in unselected Greek breast cancer women, we screened 987 unselected cases independently of their family history, collected from major Greek hospitals.
On the basis of NO16966 and NO16967 trials, mean costs and effectiveness were calculated from patient-level data. Until the disease progressed, the mean costs were calculated from the perspective of health-care payers in Japan. We estimated mean quality-adjusted progression-free survival days (QAPFSD), considering adverse events and patient preference for chemotherapy regimens. Utility scores were obtained by a web-based survey from general people, randomly sampled from a large panel adjusted for sex and age.
We analysed the presence of the AKT1 (E17K) mutation in 89 endometrial cancer tissue specimens and in 12 endometrial cancer cell lines by PCR and direct sequencing.
The circulating level of type IV collagen was measured by ELISA in pancreas cancer patients and controls. The expression pattern of type IV collagen in normal pancreas, pancreas cancer tissue and in pancreas cancer cell lines was studied by immunofluorescence and Western blot techniques.
We used a receptor oestrogen-responsive element (ERE) -- the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-reporter test system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Oestrogen receptor-alpha or ER-beta bioactivity was determined in serum from 182 randomly chosen postmenopausal women with breast cancer and from 188 age-matched controls.
Biopsy specimens from a total of 60 patients were collected before preoperative CRT with S-1 and irinotecan, and liniac 45 Gy. Immunohistochemical staining for Ki67, Mcm3, Bax, Bcl-2, ssDNA, Grp78, thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), CD34, vascular endothelial growth factor, nestin, and L-type amino-acid transporter 1 was performed to allow comparison of the Ki67 labelling index (LI), Bax score, TS score, DPD score, microvessel density by CD34, and Grp78 score with cancer regression.
We have developed a stable RNA interference model knocking down EWS-FLI1 in the Ewing sarcoma cell line TC71. Gene expression analyses were performed to study the effect of RNA interference on the genetic signature of EWS-FLI1 and to identify genes that could contribute to tumourigenesis.
In this study, we used two different fluorescent technologies (small-molecule fluorophores and quantum dot (QD) nanoparticles) to detect receptor expression and its downregulation by antibodies in vivo.
Because the molecular mechanism of action of dasatinib in breast cancers has not been investigated, we evaluated the effects of dasatinib as a single agent and in combination with the commonly used chemotherapeutic doxorubicin, on the proliferation, viability, and invasive capacity of breast cancer cells lines earlier categorised as dasatinib-sensitive (MDA-MB-231) and moderately resistant (MCF7 and T47D). We also tested the effects of these drugs on the actin cytoskeleton and associated signalling pathways.
The prognostic significance of c Kit in a series of 924 breast carcinomas (mean follow-up, 79 months) was investigated using standardised high-throughput quantitative densitometry of immunohistochemical precipitates in tissue microarrays.
An analysis of men with organ-confined prostate cancer treated with transrectal whole-gland HIFU (Sonablate 500) between 1 February 2005 and 15 May 2007 was carried out in two centres. Outcome data (side-effects using validated patient questionnaires, biochemical, histology) were evaluated.
Using immunohistochemistry, we measured COX-2, NF-kappaB-p65, NF-kappaB-p65 nuclear localisation sequence (NLS), NF-kappaB-p50, NF-kappaB-p50 NLS and IKKalpha protein expression in matched colorectal biopsy samples comprising both non-tumour and adjacent tumour tissue from 32 patients with colorectal cancer.
To this end, 92 paraffin-embedded blocks were used. The impact of UBE2C IHC value on metastasis-free survival (MFS) and overall survival (OS) was evaluated and compared with Ki-67 and Nottingham prognostic index (NPI) performances.
Published studies that investigated the association between p53, EGFR and HER-2/neu status and survival were identified. Meta-analysis was performed using a DerSimonian-Laird model. Publication bias was investigated using funnel plots and sources of heterogeneity were identified using meta-regression analysis.
We have developed a tumour model that involves the microinjection of green fluorescent protein-labelled embryonic stem (ES) cells (which are functionally equivalent to CIS cells) into syngenic mouse seminiferous tubules, a unique cell microenvironment in which germinal cells mature and CIS arise. To characterise the vascularisation of teratocarcinomas, which arise after cell transplant, we used immunohistochemistry, together with a qualitative and quantitative analysis of scanning electron microscopy images of corrosion casting samples.
Among 52 158 women (aged 55-74 years) in the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial, who completed a food frequency questionnaire, 1205 invasive breast cancer cases were identified. We estimated meat mutagen and haem iron intake with databases accounting for cooking practices. Using Cox proportional hazards regression, we calculated hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) within quintiles of intake.
All vulvar SCCs (201) were classified to be dVIN- (n=164) or uVIN related (n=37). Data with regard to the smear history and cervical histology were retrieved from PALGA, the nationwide Netherlands database of histo- and cytopathology. For HSIL cervical smears of which histology was taken, HPV DNA analysis on both the vulvar and cervical specimens was performed.
To investigate human papillomavirus (HPV) infection in Guinea, we obtained cervical specimens from 831 women aged 18-64 years from the general population of the capital Conakry and from 77 locally diagnosed invasive cervical cancers (ICC). Human papillomavirus was detected using a GP5+/6+ PCR-based assay.
Pathology and clinical characteristics of 68 patients with delTyr (n=26) or delWK (n=42) were reviewed and compared.
A search through publicly available microarray data sets showed 337 genes potentially coregulated with the DAP3 gene. The promoter sequences of these 337 genes and 70 out of 85 mitochondrial ribosome genes were analysed in silico with the DAP3 gene promoter sequence. The mitochondrial role of DAP3 was also investigated in the thyroid tumours presenting various mitochondrial contents.
We studied 61,566 British men and women, comprising 32,403 meat eaters, 8562 non-meat eaters who did eat fish ('fish eaters') and 20,601 vegetarians. After an average follow-up of 12.2 years, there were 3350 incident cancers of which 2204 were among meat eaters, 317 among fish eaters and 829 among vegetarians. Relative risks (RRs) were estimated by Cox regression, stratified by sex and recruitment protocol and adjusted for age, smoking, alcohol, body mass index, physical activity level and, for women only, parity and oral contraceptive use.
Quantitative methylation data at individual CpG sites were obtained by pyrosequencing for 109 glioblastomas.
This case-control study is nested within a large multiethnic cohort in Hawaii and California. Urine samples were analysed for daidzein, genistein, equol, and enterolactone among 249 incident prostate cancer cases and 404 controls matched on age, race/ethnicity, date/time of specimen collection, and fasting status.
Cytoglobin expression and promoter methylation were investigated in sporadic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) using a cross-section of clinical samples. Additionally, the putative mechanisms of Cygb expression in cancer were explored by subjecting HNSCC cell lines to hypoxic culture conditions and 5-aza-2-deoxycitidine treatment.
Qualitative semi-structured interview study with women recruited to a larger UK trial of different management strategies for UTI.
General practices across four counties in southern England.
Twenty-one women were interviewed about the experiences they had prior to their GP visit, self-care strategies, and triggers for help seeking. Interviews were analysed thematically, using principles of analytic induction.
A mixed method study utilising cross-sectional questionnaire survey and semi-structured interviews.
A primary care practice in South West England, UK.
Responders to the questionnaire survey were drawn from a random sample of individuals, stratified by sex, selected from one practice in the UK (n = 911). The qualitative sample (n = 22) were purposefully selected from the same general practice.
Systematic review.
Primary and secondary care settings.
A search was carried out of 19 electronic databases, online trial registries, conference proceedings, and bibliographies of included studies. The review included comparative studies or economic evaluations of primary versus secondary care follow-up, hospital follow-up with formal primary care involvement versus conventional hospital follow-up, and hospital follow-up versus patient-initiated or minimal follow-up if the study reported the impact on primary care.
Systematic review.
Primary and secondary care.
Comprehensive literature searches included: 19 electronic databases, online trial registries, conference proceedings, and bibliographies of included studies. Eligible studies included qualitative studies examining patients' and healthcare professionals' views of cancer follow-up. Studies of patients with any type of cancer, considered free of active disease, or no longer receiving active treatment were included. Findings were synthesised using thematic analysis.
Independent peer review and cross-sectional postal questionnaire study.
NHS Scotland.
One of three core appraisal activities (criterion audit, significant event analysis, or video of consultations) was undertaken by GP appraisers and subjected to peer review by trained colleagues. A follow-up postal questionnaire elicited participants' views on the potential acceptability, feasibility, and educational impact of this approach.
Prospective qualitative study, using ethnographic methods.
Participants' homes, hospitals, nursing homes, and hospices in London and surrounding areas.
The participants were 13 people with learning disabilities ranging from mild to severe, who had a cancer diagnosis. The main method of data collection was participant observation (over 250 hours). The median length of participation was 7 months.
Electronic records from all 14 practices included in the Keele GP Research Network were reviewed; all sickness certification records from 2005 were retrieved and corresponding consultation records were examined. Participants were 148 176 patients registered during 2005, including 6398 patients who received at least one sickness certificate during the same year.
PubMed, Embase and PsycINFO databases were searched for epidemiological studies that examined the association between pregnancy-related factors and autism. Forty studies were eligible for inclusion in the meta-analysis. Summary effect estimates were calculated for factors examined in multiple studies.
A systematic search and meta-analysis of controlled trials using outcome management in mental health services published in English or German language.
We analysed our previously published Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium (WTCCC) bipolar disorder genome-wide association data-set, comprising 1868 individuals with bipolar disorder and 2938 controls genotyped for 276 122 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that met stringent criteria for genotype quality. For each SNP we performed a test of association (bipolar disorder group v. control group) and used the number of associated independent SNPs statistically significant at P&lt;0.00001 as a metric for the overall genetic signal in the sample. We next compared this metric with that obtained using each of seven diagnostic subsets of the group with bipolar disorder: Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC): bipolar I disorder; manic disorder; bipolar II disorder; schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type; DSM-IV: bipolar I disorder; bipolar II disorder; schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type.
The 5-HTTLPR and 13 additional markers across the serotonin transporter gene were genotyped in 795 adults with moderate-to-severe depression treated with escitalopram or nortriptyline in the Genome Based Therapeutic Drugs for Depression (GENDEP) project.
High-risk adolescents (n = 403) were genotyped for 5-HTTLPR. Salivary samples were obtained on four consecutive school days within 1 h of waking from 393 (97.5%) individuals and 367 (91%) underwent a mental state reassessment at 12 months.
International Personality Disorder Examination (IPDE) screening questions in 13 countries (n = 21 162) were calibrated to masked IPDE clinical diagnoses. Prevalence and correlates were estimated using multiple imputation.
Population-based survey of 1147 parents aged 60 and over in rural Thailand. We randomly oversampled parents living without children. We defined an outmigrant child as living outside their parent's district, and measured depression as a continuous outcome with a Thai version of the EURO-D.
Longitudinal cohort study of 617 people (aged over 70). The main outcome was mortality risk during admission.
Neurocognitive functioning in people with bipolar disorder (n = 32), schizophrenia (n = 46) and healthy controls (n = 67) was compared using analysis of covariance on data from the Northern Ireland First Episode Psychosis Study.
Three hundred and three people with depression were randomly allocated to one of three groups: Colour Your Life; treatment as usual (TAU) by a general practitioner; or Colour Your Life and TAU combined. Colour Your Life is an online, multimedia, interactive CCBT programme. No assistance was offered. We had a 6-month follow-up period.
Children aged 6 to 12 years with ADHD were enrolled in a laboratory school study. The multicenter study consisted of open-label, dose-optimization of LDX (30, 50, 70 mg/d, 4 weeks) followed by a randomized, placebo-controlled, 2-way crossover phase (1 week each). Efficacy measures included the SKAMP (deportment [primary] and attention [secondary]) and PERMP (attempted/correct) scales (secondary) measured at predose and at 1.5, 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 12, and 13 hours postdose. Safety measures included treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), physical examination, vital signs, and ECGs.
The cytotoxicity of blank-control serum and JHD-containing serum at different concentrations were evaluated through the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay in RAW264.7 cells. RAW264.7 cells were divided into six groups: 5% blank-control serum group (C1, n=3), 5% blank-control serum plus LPS group (L1, n=4), 5% JHD-containing serum plus LPS group (J1, n=4), 10% blank-control serum group (C2, n=3), 10% blank-control serum plus LPS group (L2, n=4), and 10% JHD-containing serum plus LPS group (J2, n=4). After cultured with the corresponding serum for 1 h, cells in L1, L2, J1 and J2 were treated with LPS (0.1 microg/mL) for 12 h without rinse. The supernate, cells, protein and RNA were collected for assay. TNF-alpha in the culture supernate was assayed by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Protein expression of TNF-alpha in RAW cells was detected by Western-blot. TNF-alpha, Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), TLR4 and CD14 mRNA expression in RAW cells were detected by real-time RT-PCR.
An epidemiological survey was conducted to collect the data of 227 patients diagnosed as chronic primary glomerular diseases, and their severity of BSS were scored three days before renal biopsies were performed. The following clinical indexes were analyzed: age, course of glomerular diseases, 24-h urine protein ration (Upro), hypertension and blood pressure (BP) progress, serum creatinine levels (Scr), estimation of glomerular filtration rate based on the predigesting equation of MDRD (eGFR), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), uric acid (UA), triglyceride (TG), cholesterol (CHO), haematoglobin (HGB), albumin (ALB), and the correlation among renal pathological types, pathology lesion indexes, and BSS scores.
Seventy healthy male volunteers (age ranges from 18 to 22 years old) were randomly assigned to RGC group (35 cases, each capsule containing 270 mg herbal extracts, 4 capsules per day) or placebo group (35 cases, equivalent placebo preparation) for 7 weeks using computer produced digital random method. The endurance performance, serum testosterone and cortisol levels were measured at the baseline and the endpoint.
Eighty-two NSCLC patients were randomly assigned to two groups equally, the control group and the test group, they were given conventional treatment, while to the test group, DB1 were given additionally. The observation was conducted by testing the changes of T-lymphocyte subsets, natural killer (NK) cell activity, serum levels of immunoglobulin (IgA, IgM, IgG), interleukin-2 (IL-2), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), cytokeratin fragment 19 (CYFRA21-1) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in NSCLC patients before and after administration of DB1, and analyzing the patients' general condition.
A total of 103 uncomplicated falciparum malaria patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to two groups: 52 cases in the Artequick group, and 51 cases in the Artekin group. The patients in the Artequick group were administered with Artequick, twice in 24 h, whereas the patients in the Artekin group were given Artekin 4 times in 2 days. The mean parasite clearance time, mean fever clearance time, 28-day cure rate and parasite recrudescence rates of the two groups were then compared.
Forty AML patients hospitalized at the authors hospital were treated with Chinese drugs and chemotherapy. The routine examination, immunophenotype and karyotype analyses were carried out. The clinical efficacy was observed and the prognostic factors were analyzed.
The liver injury in the model rat was induced by alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4) ) respectively, and the effects of Yinchenhao Decoction (, YCHD), a proved effective Chinese medical formula for treating the dampness-heat jaundice syndrome in clinic, on the two liver injury models were evaluated by analyzing the serum level of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), asparate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), malondialchehyche (MDA), total bilirubin (T-BIL), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) as well as the ratio of liver weight to body weight. The experimental data were analyzed by principal component analytical method of pattern recognition.
The changes of prostaglandin E(2)(PGE(2)), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha), nitric oxide (NO), and expressions of COX-1 mRNA and COX-2 mRNA in BALB/c mouse macrophages were observed by the radioimmunoassay, ELISA and nitric acid reduction and RT-PCR in the presence or absence of TGA.
A total of 120 patients were assigned to two groups using stratified block randomization, 80 in the intervention group and 40 in the control group. To the intervention group the TXYF granule was given at one package each time, twice a day; the control group was treated with Miyarisan three times a day, two tablets each time. The course of treatment was 4 weeks for both groups. The total efficacy in them was compared, and data of scoring on stool (Bristol method), abdominal pain, abdominal distension, and mental condition were collected before treatment and 2 and 4 weeks after treatment. The activation of mast cells (MCs) of six patients chosen from each group was detected as well before and after treatment.
Fifty UC patients were enrolled, after differentiation into four types by CM syndromes, i.e., the internal heat-damp accumulation type (IHDA), the qi-stagnancy with blood stasis type (QSBS), the Pi-Shen yang-deficiency type (PSYD) and the yin-blood deficiency type (YBD). From every patient, 3-5 pieces of intestinal mucous membrane tissues were taken through colonoscopy to determine the levels of the T-cell subsets (CD4(+) and CD8(+)) using immunohistochemical method. The results were compared with those in the normal control.
A total of 116 patients with GBM who received surgery and radiation between January 2006 and December 2007 were included in this study. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox regression analysis were used to find the factors independently influencing patients' progression free survival (PFS) time and overall survival (OS) time.
Standard therapy with primary resection followed by adjuvant chemoradiotherapy had failed in all patients. Bevacizumab was administered at a dose of 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Concomitantly, four patients received temozolomide (50 mgxm(-2)xd(-1)), one patient irinotecan (125 mg/m(2) every 2 weeks) and one patient topotecan (1.2 mgxm(-2)xd(-1)). Response to therapy was mainly determined by magnetic resonance imaging. The expression of Ras, phosphorylated mitogen activated protein kinase (p-MAPK), phosphorylated AKT (p-AKT), phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR) and phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) were semiquantitatively assessed by immunohistochemistry using surgical biopsies before the initial treatment.
Freshly resected glioblastoma specimen was collected and magnetic isolation of GSCs was carried out using the Miltenyi Biotec CD133 Cell Isolation kit. The cytotoxic effect of TMZ on CD133(+) and CD133(-) glioblastoma cells was determined by using the 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Autophagy-related proteins (Beclin-1, LC3 and Atg5) and cleaved caspase-3 (p17) were analyzed by Western blotting. Immunofluorescent staining was used to detect Atg5, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and CD133 expression in glioblastoma cells. Statistical analysis was carried out using SPSS 10.0 software. For all tests, the level of statistical significance was set at P &lt; 0.05.
Human malignant glioma cells U251-MG were cultured and assigned to four groups with different treatments for 3 days: temozolomide group (100 micromol/L), thalidomide group (100 microg/L), temozolomide (100 micromol/L) plus thalidomide group (100 microg/L) and control group. MTT assay was applied to evaluate the cell viability. Cell cycle was analyzed by flow cytometry. The ultra-structural features of autophagosomes were observed with electron microscope. Acridine orange and monodansylcadaverine were adopted to label autophagosomes and flow cytometry was applied for quantification of autophagosomes. The expression of autophagy-associated protein was detected by Western blotting.
C6 and C6-CD::UPRT cells were cultured with 5-FC. The medium, cells and their mixture were analyzed by (19)F-MRS. Rats with intracranial xenografted encephalic C6-CD::UPRT glioma were injected intraperitoneally with 5-FC and their (19)F-MRS spectra recorded. Then the pharmacokinetics of 5-FC was proved. Mixtures of C6 and C6-CD::UPRT cells at different ratios were cultured with 5-FC and the cytotoxic efficacy and survival rate of cells recorded. To determine the mechanism of the bystander effect, the culture media from cell comprising 25% and 75% C6-CD::UPRT cells were examined by (19)F-MRS. A comparative study of mean was performed using analysis of variance (ANOVA).
We selected three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that could capture all common variants in APLN gene region and genotyped them in 1892 type 2 diabetic patients and 1808 normal glucose regulation controls. The clinical features related to glucose metabolism were measured in the controls. The comparison of allele and genotype distribution in the cases and controls were performed by using chi(2) tests. The association between SNPs and quantitative traits were analyzed using Wilcoxon's rank-sum test.
Comparative genomic hybridization was used to investigate genomic imbalances in 25 cases of primary rhabdomyosarcomas and two rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines. Specimens were reviewed to determine histological type, pathological grading and clinical staging.
The clinical features, laboratory test results, and therapeutic outcomes of 129 cases who isolated MRSA collected from January 2006 to December 2007 were retrospectively analyzed. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to determine mecA-femB type and staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) type. All the participants were screened for clinical and microbiological data to identify the coexistence of VRE strains with MRSA.
Two batches of serum specimens collected in different periods were tested by Western blotting for specific IgG against HBoV using recombinant VP2 as antigen.
Totally 59 patients with 68 acute benign vertebral fractures and 43 patients with 79 vertebral metastases were included in this study. The MR protocol included DWIs and sagittal in-phase/opposed-phase gradient recalled sequence. The severity of vertebral damage was expressed by lesion ratio (LR, the ratio of lesion area to vertebral area on the slices of largest abnormal signal area in the T1-weighted sequence). Quantitative (signal intensity ratio (SIR) defined as signal intensity (SI) on opposed-phase gradient recalled echo (GRE) images divided by SI on in-phase; apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) value derived from DWI analysis was performed, the relationships between LR and the measurements of these two technologies were analyzed using linear regression. The covariate-specific receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were also fitted to evaluate the influence of LR on the diagnostic performance of ADC and SIR.
We selected two series of human breast cancer-derived cell lines whose expression of estrogen receptors (ER) was previously published. Hyaluronidase secretion in culture medium and expression of matrix metallo-proteinase (MMP)-9, cathepsin-D (cath-D) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by cells were determined. We also investigated cell invasiveness in the Matrigel invasion assay, and studied the capability of cancer cells to promote in vitro formation of tubules by endothelial cells.
Eleven strains of Haemophilus influenzae were isolated from sputum specimens collected from patients with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases. Formation of bacterial biofilm was examined by crystal violet assay and a scanning electron microscope. Alterations of biofilms were measured under varying concentrations of azithromycin and ciprofloxacin.
Forty-one patients with lung cancer underwent FDG positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) imaging before and after radiotherapy. The mean standardized uptake value (SUV) was measured for the isodose regions of 0 - 9 Gy, 10 - 19 Gy, 20 - 29 Gy, 30 - 39 Gy, 40 - 49 Gy. The mean SUV of these regions after radiotherapy was compared with baseline. The mean SUV in patients who developed RP was also compared with that in those who did not. The statistical difference was determined by matched pair t test. The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) criteria were used for diagnosis and grading of RP.
Eighty New Zealand rabbits implanted with VX(2) brain tumours were randomly assigned to five groups: control, conventional white light microsurgery, a photodynamic therapy group, a photodynamically guided microsurgery group and a group in which guided microsurgery was followed by photodynamic therapy. The VX(2) tumour was resected under a surgical microscope. The tumour resection was confirmed with histological analysis. All animals were examined with MRI for presence of any residual tumour tissue. The survival time of each rabbit was recorded.
AMI was induced in rats by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery. One group received 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB, a kind of PARP inhibitor) (30 mg/kg) by intraperitoneal injection. The changes of ultramicrostructure of cardiocytes in infarction region were noted, PARP cleavage was measured by Western blotting, and expressions of protein of PARP and apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) were measured by immunohistochemical staining after treatment with 3-AB for 2 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, 1 week, 4 weeks and 8 weeks.
After stably transfecting a RASSF1A (wild-type or mutant) expression vector into the BEL-7402 hepatocellular carcinoma cell line, RT-PCR and Western blotting was used to detect the RASSF1A expression levels in recombinant cells. The effects of wild-type RASSF1A on cell growth were observed in vitro by analyzing cell proliferation rate, cell colony formation, and in vivo by analyzing tumorigenesis in nude mice. In addition, the effect of RASSF1A gene expression on the chemosensitivity of human hepatocellular carcinoma cells to antitumor drugs was examined by inhibition of cell proliferation and the percentage of apoptotic cells.
Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) was performed to find 5-HTTLPR gene polymorphisms in 144 smokers and 135 age-matched healthy non-smokers. A questionnaire was completed in all recruited subjects.
The genotypes of p22phox polymorphism were determined by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphisms (PCR-RFLP) assay in 176 unrelated subjects of the Han population in southern region of China (including 107 OSAHS subjects and 69 non-OSAHS subjects), while the plasma concentration of superoxide dismutase (SOD) was detected in the two groups, and p22phox mRNA expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) was determined with reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
We enrolled, prospectively, 195 consecutive HF patients with left ventricular ejection fractions (LVEF) &lt; or = 45% and all subjects underwent polysomnography to measure the sleep structure between 2005 and 2008. Patients were then assigned to those with SRBD including obstructive and central sleep apnea (apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) &gt; or = 5/hour of sleep) and those without SRBD (AHI &lt; 5/hour) according to the sleep study. The subjective sleepiness was assessed with Epworth sleepiness scale (ESS).
Thirty male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to three groups: normal control (NC); hypoxia-hypercapnia (HH); Hypoxia-hypercapnia + oridonin (HHO). Rats were exposed to hypoxia-hypercapnia for four weeks. Cultured human PASMC (HPASMC) were assigned to three groups: normoxia (NO); hypoxia (HY); hypoxia + oridonin (HO). The mean pulmonary artery pressure, mass ratio of right ventricle over left ventricle plus septum (RV/(LV + S)), the ratio of thickness of the pulmonary arteriole wall to vascular external diameter (WT%) and the ratio of the vessel wall area to the total area (WA%) were measured. Morphologic changes of pulmonary arteries were observed under light and electron microscopes. The apoptotic characteristics in vitro and in vivo were detected.
Thirty-two male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to four groups: vehicle + saline group, melatonin + saline group, vehicle + lipopolysaccharide group, melatonin + lipopolysaccharide group. The rats were treated with melatonin (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal injection (i.p.)) or vehicle (1% ethanol saline), 30 minutes prior to lipopolysaccharide administration (6 mg/kg, intravenous injection). Four hours after lipopolysaccharide injection, samples of pulmonary tissue were collected. Blood gas analysis was carried out. Optical microscopy was performed to examine pathological changes in lungs and lung injury score was assessed. Wet/dry ratios (W/D), myeloperoxidase activity, malondialdehyde concentrations and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels in lungs were measured. The pulmonary expression of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) p65 was evaluated by Western blotting.
A clone with high expression of APAO was obtained by transfecting A549 lung cancer cell line with pcDNA3.1/APAO plasmid and selecting with quantitative realtime PCR and APAO activity assay. Cell proliferation was determined by MTT method and apoptosis related events were evaluated by DNA fragmentation, sub-G1/flow cytometric assay, western blotting (for cytochrome C and Bax) and colorimetric assay (for casapse-3 activity).
From January 2004 to December 2006, 516 orthotopic liver transplantations were performed at the First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University. For patients who suffered acute rejection, clinical manifestations, histopathological features, diagnosis and anti-rejection treatment were summarized and analyzed.
A retrospective study was performed comparing LADG and ODG for advanced gastric cancer. Seventy-eight patients who underwent LADG were compared with 90 patients who underwent ODG in terms of pathologic findings, operative outcome, and complications.
A total of 459 subjects were recruited and categorized into control group (n = 116), stable angina (SA) group (n = 115), unstable angina group (n = 116) and acute myocardial infarction group (n = 112). Plasma apoAV level was measured by a sandwich ELISA assay.
One hundred and six patients with CML received 1.5 mg/m(2) of HHT alone by continuous daily infusion for seven to nine days every four weeks. Of 79 patients in the control group, 31 were treated with interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) and 48 with hydroxycarbamide. For 17 patients who failed to achieve cytogenetic response within 12 months' treatment of IFN-alpha, HHT was administered. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to detect the BCR-ABL mRNA expression in 36 Philadelphia positive CML patients enrolled after 2007. Haematological and cytogenetic responses were evaluated in all patients at the 12th month of follow-up. Long term efficacy was assessed in a follow-up with a median time of 54 months (12 months-98 months).
A retrospective study was conducted. Pre- and post-operative clinical status was evaluated by modified Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score. ISI was evaluated according to the T2-weighted sequences. The JOA score and the recovery ratios among patients with ISI in gray matter (group A), in both gray and white matter (group B), and ISI-negative group were compared.
HF was induced in beagles by rapid right ventricular pacing (230 beats/min) for 30 days. A reduced rate ventricular pacing (180 beats/min) was continued for another 30 days. The beagles were assigned to four groups: (a) control group (n = 4); (b) HF group (n = 4); (c) enhanced green fluorescent protein group (n = 4); and (d) SERCA2a group (n = 4). rAAV1-EGFP (1 x 10(12) microg) and rAAV1-SERCA2a (1 x 10(12) microg) were delivered intramyocardially. SERCA2a expression was assessed by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry.
Low molecular weight heparin microcapsules were investigated using gelatin as microcapsule material. The prepared low molecular weight heparin gelatin particles were subjected to nickel and titanium alloy occluder coating by sodium hyaluronate. A dog model of atrial septal defects was established after treatment with low molecular weight heparin microcapsule coated occluder (n = 4) and uncoated occluder (n = 4). Endotheliocytes and fibroblastic cells in occluders were observed. And the rate of endothelialization was detected.
With an amygdaloid kindled Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat model and an electrophysiological method, different doses of curcumin (10 mgxkg(-1)xd(-1) and 30 mgxkg(-1)xd(-1) as low dose groups, 100 mgxkg(-1)xd(-1) and 300 mgxkg(-1)xd(-1) as high dose groups) were administrated intraperitoneally during the whole kindling days, by comparison with the course of kindling, afterdischarge (AD) thresholds and the number of ADs to reach the stages of class I to V seizures in the rats between control and experimental groups. One-way or two-way ANOVA and Fisher's least significant difference post hoc test were used for statistical analyses.
Freshly isolated adult male Sprague-Dawley rat myocytes were loaded with Fura-2/AM and [Ca](i) was determined by spectrofluorometry. Remifentanil at 0.1 - 1000 microg/L was administered. Ten minutes after administration, either 0.2 Hz electrical stimulation was applied or 10 mmol/L caffeine was added. The [Ca(2+)](i), and the amplitude, time resting and 50% decay (t(50)) of both transients induced by electrical stimulation (E [Ca(2+)](i)) and caffeine (C [Ca(2+)](i)) were determined.
Thirty rabbits were assigned randomly to 3 groups: normal control group (A), the cholesterol group (B), simvastatin group (C: high fat diet for 4 weeks and high fat diet + simvastatin for further 4 weeks). Stiffness coefficient, pressure strain elastic modulus and velocity of pulse waves in abdominal aorta and femoral artery were measured by ultrasonographic echo tracking at the end of the 4th and the 8th weeks.
One hundred and twenty healthy male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to six groups: normal (n = 20), induced fibrosis (n = 20), colchicine (n = 20) and three treatment groups of oxymatrine (n = 20 x 3). We obesrved changes in deposition of collagen, hyaluronic acid (HA), laminin (LN), collagen type IV (CIV), procollagen III (PCIII) and hydroxyproline (Hyp), a-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and phosphor-p38 (pp38).
The supernatants of HepG2.2.15 cells which contained HBV-DNA or HBs were added to LX-2 cells for 72 hours. Cell survival was determined by MTT assay. HBV particles in LX-2 cells were detected by transmission electron microscopy. The expression of HBs and HBV C protein (HBc) was determined by confocal fluorescence microscopy. The expression levels of HBV-DNA were measured by real-time PCR. The cellular collagen type I mRNA and protein levels were quantified by reverse transcription-PCR and ELISA, respectively.
A group of 11 chiropractors were selected because they used maintenance care. They were interviewed using the questionnaire from the previous Swedish survey. The questionnaire consisted of a simple description of a hypothetical patient with low back pain and nine possible ways in which the case could develop ("scenarios"). They could choose between six different management strategies for each scenario. In addition, the chiropractors were encouraged to provide their own definition of maintenance care in an open-ended question. Interviews were taped, transcribed and analyzed. For the open-ended question, statements were identified relating to six pre hoc defined topics on the inclusion criteria/rationale for maintenance care, the frequency of treatments, and the duration of the maintenance care program.
The pharmacokinetics of valganciclovir were described with plasma concentrations from 22 patients (age range 3-17 years) using nonlinear mixed-effects modelling (NONMEM) software. A two-compartment model with lag-time and first-order absorption and elimination was developed. The final model was validated using a bootstrap and visual predictive check. The dosage regimens of valganciclovir for CMV prophylaxis in children were simulated using the final model.
The CAESAR study, a prospective 12-month study in primary renal allograft recipients, was designed to determine whether mycophenolate mofetil-based regimens containing either low-dose cyclosporin or low-dose cyclosporin withdrawn by 6 months could minimize nephrotoxicity and improve renal function without an increase in acute rejection compared with a mycophenolate mofetil-based regimen containing standard-dose cyclosporin.
A subset of patients from the CAESAR study contributed to this pharmacokinetic analysis of MPA exposure. Blood samples were taken over one dosing interval on day 7 and at months 3, 7 and 12 post-transplantation. The sampling time points were predose, 20, 40 and 75 minutes and 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 12 hours after mycophenolate mofetil dosing. Assessments included plasma concentrations of MPA and mycophenolic acid glucuronide (MPAG) and cyclosporin trough concentrations. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) from 0 to 12 hours (AUC(12)) for MPA was the primary pharmacokinetic parameter, and the AUC(12) for MPAG was the secondary parameter.
Stable-labelled carbamazepine was administered intravenously on three occasions during the deinduction period to 15 patients with epilepsy for whom carbamazepine therapy was being discontinued. Data were analysed using a nonlinear mixed-effects model (NONMEM). An enzyme turnover model consisting of a one-compartment model linked with a hypothetical enzyme compartment was applied to characterize the time course of carbamazepine deinduction. Model evaluation was performed using the bootstrap approach and a visual predictive check.
Commonly used rating scales for agitation and aggression are reviewed and discussed. Furthermore, we focus in this article on benefits and limitations of all available data of anticonvulsants published in this specific indication, such as valproate, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, lamotrigine, gabapentin and topiramate.
BM MSC, obtained from six patients with MIOP, were expanded in vitro and characterized by morphology, plastic-adherence, immunophenotype and multilineage differentiation potential.
The method consists of direct plating of cells without density-gradient isolation followed by two detachment steps and expansion in 5% human platelet lysate (hPL).
We compared the MNC yield, viability, phenotypic markers and in vitro functionality in pediatric patients compared with adult patients enrolled in clinical trials evaluating autologous BM MNC transplantation. Thirty-six patients (n=10 pediatric and n=26 adult) were included in this analysis. All patients underwent BM harvest in which 1-3 mL/kg was aspirated under local anesthesia. MNC were isolated by gradient densitometry. The average age of the older and younger patient groups was 59+/-7 years and 9+/-3 years, respectively.
After prolonged in vitro cultivation, EPC were incubated with or without nicotine. The senescence of EPC was determined by acidic beta-galactosidase staining. The bromo-deoxyuridine incorporation assay and colony assay were employed to assess proliferative capacity and clonal expansion potential, respectively. To examine further the underlying mechanisms of these effects, we measured telomerase activity and the phosphorylation of Akt by Western blotting.
A retrospective analysis of 19 autologous stem cell transplants (ASCT) with combined BM-PBPC for poor initial PBPC collection was carried out. Mobilization was with filgrastim (10 microg/kg/day) alone for 5 days or after chemotherapy. BM was harvested if PBPC collections were CD34+&lt;2.5 x 10(6)/kg.
This study compared cryopreservation of PBSC in a novel intracellular-like, fully defined, serum- and protein-free preservation solution, CryoStor (BioLife Solutions Inc.), with a standard formulation used by the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (FHCRC). Briefly, human PBSC apheresis specimens were collected and 5 x 10(7) cells/1 mL sample vial were prepared for cryopreservation in the following solutions: (a) FHCRC standard, Normosol-R, 5% human serum albumin (HAS) and 10% DMSO; and (b) CryoStor CS10 (final diluted concentration of 5% DMSO). A standard controlled-rate freezing program was employed, and frozen vials were stored in the vapor phase of a liquid nitrogen freezer for a minimum of 1 week. Vials were then thawed and evaluated for total nucleated cell count (TNC), viability, CD34 and granulocytes by flow cytometry, along with colony-forming activity in methylcellulose.
Pre-culture separation of red and white blood cells was done using either PrepaCyte?-EQ medium or Ficoll-Paque? PREMIUM density medium. Regular FBS and MSC-qualified FBS were compared for their ability to support the establishment of putative primary MSC colonies.
Hepatic differentiation of UC-MSC was induced with a 2-step protocol. The expressions of hepatic markers were detected by RT-PCR and immunofluorescence staining. Albumin production and urea secretion were measured by ELISA and colorimetric assay respectively. The immunosuppressive properties of DHC was detected by mixed lymphocyte culture.
Rat MSC were isolated from the BM of the four different rat strains in an identical fashion. Cells were characterized for their cell-surface phenotype in early and late passage. Functional mesenchymal differentiation capacities were examined following adipogenic and osteogenic inductions. Population doubling times were determined across the four strains throughout 10 passages. In vitro proliferation assays of immune cells were conducted following co-culture of spleen cells and MSC of the four different strains.
We studied the use of placental-derived adherent stromal cells (ASC) in a standard limb ischemia model of male Balb/c mice. These placental-derived cells, termed PLX-PAD, share the adherence and marker expression of BM-derived MSC but lack their differentiation potential. PLX-PAD are isolated from human placenta following a Caesarean section and cultured in a bioreactor, termed the PluriX System. The PluriX System provides a three-dimensional (3-D) microenvironment that enables the large-scale growth of these cells. PLX-PAD are stable adhesive cells that can be expanded in vitro without the loss of phenotype and without showing signs of karyotypic changes.
PMVEC apoptosis was induced by high shear stress (HSS) with serum starvation or pro-inflammatory factors in an artificial capillary system. EPC were delivered into monocrotaline-induced PAH nude rats.
hMSC were electrostimulated with 10 and 40 V for 12 h. FST production was assessed by immunostaining, Western blot and flow cytometry.
Here, we present a unique and first case of synchronous primary carcinoid tumor and moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma arising within mature cystic teratoma of horseshoe kidney in a 50-year-old female. Lumbar spine X-ray, done for her complaint of progressive chronic low back pain, accidentally found a large calcification overlying the lower pole of the right kidney. Further radiologic studies revealed horseshoe kidney and a large multi-septated cystic lesion immediately anterior to the right renal pelvis with central calcification and peripheral enhancement. She underwent right partial nephrectomy.
Specimen of 29 patients were investigated immunohistochemically with antibodies against p-AKT, TKTL-1 (transketolase-like 1), M2PK (M2 pyruvate kinase), and GLUT-1. Proliferation was investigated by staining with Ki67. The tumors were located at the major or minor salivary glands. Only the typical cribriform subtype was investigated. The initial tumor stage was pT1 or pT2.
This article is based on a selective review of the literature regarding the assessment and management of the prostatitis syndrome and on a recently published consensus statement of the International Prostatitis Collaboration Network.
Six essential considerations in the planning and evaluation of medical research studies are presented and discussed in the light of selected scientific articles from the international literature as well as the authors' own scientific expertise with regard to study design.
The indications for, and oncological outcomes of, partial renal resection are presented and discussed on the basis of a selective literature search of Medline as well as the guidelines of the European Association of Urologists (EAU).
This is not a systematic review nor a meta-analysis. It is mainly based on the guidelines of national (DGVS and DACED) and international (AGA, ACG, BSG, CCFA, ECCO) specialist societies and expert groups, as well as on important reviews and a limited number of pivotal randomized, double-blind, controlled, multicenter studies.
A selective literature search revealed 102 relevant publications as of September 2008, 50 of which were original articles.
Selective analysis of current national and international guidelines and relevant review articles.
The study involved 29 patients aged 25-74 (the mean age: 52 +/- 6 years) with infiltrative form of GO. They were classified for ophthalmopathy treatment on the basis of the following factors: the obtained euthyreosis, progressive character of eye changes, the level of eye changes determined on the basis of NO SPECS classification (at least class 3c), ophthalmopathy index (OI) according to Donaldson &gt;or= 4. GO was diagnosed as active if CAS (clinical activity score) &gt;or= 4. During the treatment, the patients received 6 cycles of methylprednisolone sodium succinate in doses of 1,0 g/24 h given as one-hour-long intravenous infusions for three successive days in a week. Between the 2nd and 4th cycle of Solu-Medrol, orbital radiotherapy with 10 MeV X-rays was performed. The control group was made up of healthy volunteers selected with regard to sex, age, educational background and nicotine addiction so as they corresponded with the study group. It involved 53 individuals aged 21-75 (the mean age: 52,4 +/- 14 years). QoL was assessed by means of the MOS SF-36 questionnaire.
We used immortalized murine endothelial cell line received from endothelial cells of the mouse peripheral lymph node. The effect of adiponectin was examined at concentrations from 10(-5) to 10(-12)M. Thalidomide was used at 10(-3)M concentration. The growth of HECa10 cells was assessed by the colorimetric Mosmann method.
Relationships were investigated between anthropometric variables, i.e. weight, height, BMI, waist circumference (WC), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), body fat distribution (DXA), serum CRP and IL-6, insulin sensitivity/resistance indices, and IL-6 174G_C gene polymorphism, in healthy non-obese Polish subjects: 232 women (age 31.4 +/- 5.5 years) and 199 men (age 30.3 +/- 6.0 years).
In 29 patients in NTS group (45.6 +/- 1.3 y), 32 in CNT group (48.4 +/- 0.9 y) and in 23 healthy subjects-GK (42.7 +/- 2.7 y) - 25-OH-D(3), intact PTH, ionized (Ca(2+)) and phosphate (P) were estimated in blood serum before and PTH in 4, 8, 12, 18 and 24 hours, Ca(2+) and P in 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 18 and 24 hours after an oral administration of Pi. Urinary excretion of calcium and phosphate were also estimated on day before and at the day of an oral Pi load.
The records of 37 patients with pheochromocytoma were identified, who were treated in 2000-2007 in the Department of Endocrinology, Diabetology and Isotope Treatment in Wroclaw. There were 23 women (age 23-75 year) and 14 men (age 17-74). We studied frequency of clinical signs, usefulness of diagnostic methods and efficacy of treatment.
The study was conducted on 20 females with non-autoimmunological subclinical hyperthyroidism and 15 healthy women. Manganase-containing superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) and extracellular superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD) plasma activity, and malondialdehyde (MDA) plasma concentration were measured.
In a serial cross-sectional survey with prompted signs, the subjects were coded by gender and age (over 65 years, under 65 years), and students (13-18 years old and school uniforms). We used a 2-week baseline period, followed by a 4-week intervention in which a total of 45 posters and banners with motivational messages were used to encourage stair use. As a booster, we published a news release of this study on a web site and in a local newspaper during the intervention period.
A questionnaire was used to investigate the degree of dampness in public apartment houses in Asahikawa, Japan, and its effect on SBS symptoms, involving 480 residents in 64 buildings. Dampness indicators were as follows: condensation on the windowpanes, condensation on the walls and/or closets, visible mold in the bathrooms, visible mold on the walls, window frames, and/or closet, moldy odor, slow drying of the wet towels in bathrooms, water leakage, and bad drainage in bathrooms.
For this purpose, 621 male school children (age range 10-15 years) were selected at random from rural secondary schools (n = 20) in nine districts in the state of West Bengal, India. The subjective evaluation of health problems of the school children was made by questionnaire technique. Postural analysis of the children during classwork was made by video-photographic method as well as direct observation method. Anthropometric measures of the school children were taken by an anthropometer.
The subjects were Japanese 199 women who had been selected for inclusion in the study based on a low forearm BMD determined at the Annual Women's Health Examination. The subjects' mean (+/- standard deviation) age, body height, body weight, and body mass index (BMI) were 33.5 (+/-4.3) years, 158.1 (+/-5.1) cm, 49.6 (+/-5.7) kg, and 19.8 (+/-2.1), respectively. The BMD of the lumbar spine, total body, and left arm were measured using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Fat mass (FM), bone-free lean tissue mass (LTM), and body fat percentage (BF%) were measured simultaneously with DXA.
Each tooth was cut in half. A longitudinal section 200 mum in thickness was subjected to the determination of the heavy metal content by SRXRF or conventional analytical methods (ICP-MS analysis or reduction-aeration atomic absorption spectrometry). The relative concentrations of Pb, Hg, Cu and Zn measured by SRXRF were translated in concentrations (in g of heavy metal/g of enamel) using calibration curves by the two analytical methods.
We measured personal exposure to PM(2.5) and examined oxidative stress using urinary malondialdehyde three times in 51 preschoolers and 38 elderly subjects. A linear mixed-effects model was used to estimate PM(2.5) effects on urinary MDA levels.
A total of 75 milk samples were obtained within 1 month of delivery from Japanese mothers living in the coastal areas of the Japan Sea. The relationships between the levels of seven dioxins and ten furan isomers in maternal breast milk, measured by high-resolution-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, and the birth size of newborns, which is related to fetal growth, were investigated after adjustment for confounding factors.
The reproduction number for airborne infection in an enclosed space (R (A)) was estimated using a Wells-Riley model. First, we estimated R (A) for the TB infection based on the report of the TB outbreak in the Internet café. Second, TB infectious dose, number of days of exposure, and air-exchange rate in the facility were varied to estimate the effect of TB risk settings and environmental factors.
Subjects were 232 infants (111 males and 121 females) aged 1.6 and 3 years born in "N" town between the fiscal years of 1997 and 2001. Infants aged 1.6 and 3 years had 99.6 and 100% participation in health checkups, respectively. Of the total, 148 and 84 infants were living in the urban and rural areas, respectively, of "N" town.
The validation study was performed using 116 non-handicapped community-dwelling Japanese elderly at least 60 years of age. Of those subjects, 44 were also analyzed for the relationship between baseline ADL status and subsequent risk of adverse conditions related to falls.
Thirty-two subjects (17 males and 15 females) volunteered for the study. They were classified into three groups: intervention group 1, comprised of first grade physical therapist students; control group, which included first grade occupational therapist students; intervention group 2, which comprised third grade physical therapist students. The educational intervention during the experimental period consisted of: (1) 12 regular classes and short-term clinical practice for the students of intervention group 1; (2) long-term clinical practice, relating to patient-handling task, for the students of intervention group 2. The following experiments were repeated before and after the educational intervention. Each subject was asked to transfer a male (55 kg) from one chair to a second chair (left to right) and then back again to the original chair (right to left). The flexion angles of the trunk, hip and knee joints were quantified by means of the dynamic three-dimensional biomechanical analysis. Muscle activities (% maximum voluntary contraction, %MVC) of biceps brachii, trapezius, rectus femoris and erector spinae muscles were measured using surface electromyography (EMG). The effects of group, gender, measurement time and side on joint angles of trunk and lower extremity, %MVC of four muscle activities and transfer time were assessed.
Using data from the Chinese Longitudinal Health Longevity Study conducted in 2002 and 2005, 8,099 surviving and 3,822 deceased elderly aged 65 years and over were evaluated using multinomial logistic regression.
This was a population-based cross-sectional, case-control study. Cases were selected among students of a primary and junior high school, respectively, and age- and sex-matched control subjects were selected randomly (ratio of cases to control subject was 37:113).
A questionnaire survey was performed to evaluate the estimated prevalence of ADHD symptoms in preschool children in Niigata City, Japan. The first survey, conducted in 2003, involved an evaluation of ADHD symptoms by their school teachers. The second survey, conducted in 2006, involved an evaluation of the symptoms by parents. The teacher survey included 9,956 children, and the parent survey included 7,566 children. Parents and teachers assessed ADHD symptoms in children using a 14-item questionnaire based on DSM-III-R. Children with a score of 8 or higher were classified as having ADHD symptoms.
We used checkup data compiled for 6477 male workers, aged 20-59 years in 1995, with risk factors of cardiovascular disease. The relation between the recovery from risk factors 9 years later and baseline lifestyles was examined by logistic regression according to the initial number of risk factors.
A total of 535 residents (184 men and 351 women) who attended a healthcare checkup program conducted in a rural area of Hokkaido, Japan, in August 2005 provided informed consent for their spot urine samples to be used for the determination of 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA) levels. They also completed a self-administered questionnaire regarding the intake frequency of 12 food items. The concentrations of creatinine-corrected 3-PBA were predicted by the intake frequency of each item, using analysis-of-covariance models to adjust for age, sex, body mass index, and drinking and smoking status.
We analyzed nine metabolites (MMP, MEP, MnBP, MBzP, MEHP, MEOHP, MEHHP, MINP, MnOP) of seven phthalate esters in spot urine samples from 50 pregnant women by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). Using four urine samples collected from each of 12 subjects from 50 pregnant women within 5-12 weeks, we compared intra- and interindividual variation in urinary metabolites by calculation of intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). We estimated daily intakes of 50 pregnant women from their urinary metabolite concentrations.
The subjects were 54 HF patients (six men, 48 women; mean age: 78.0 +/- 8.4 years) admitted to general hospitals in Hirosaki, Aomori prefecture, between 1998 and 2007. All were aged 60 years or older and were able to walk immediately before injury; physical therapy was initiated for all individuals during hospitalization. Evaluation items related to physical function, psychological function, and complications that may affect gait were evaluated; these included the manual muscle test, motor age test, Katz's index, dementia (HDS-R), consciousness disturbance, among others.
Two regions with an objectively assessed high and low residential density, land use mix-diversity, and street connectivity, respectively, were identified in one city. The subjects were selected using a stratified random sampling method by sex and age in each region. The NE of the subjects was objectively measured using the Geographic Information System (GIS), and the subjects' perception of the NE was assessed using a questionnaire. The daily total number of walking steps was measured with an accelerometer, and walking and cycling time were assessed by a questionnaire.
The PPCPs were selected on the basis of consumption at the regional scale, reported aquatic toxicity, and the suitability of the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) method for the determination of the compounds at trace levels. The studied PPCPs, caffeine (stimulant), carbamazepine (antiepileptic), pentoxifylline (anticoagulant), cyclophosphamide (cytostatic), ibuprofen (analgesic), and galaxolide (musk fragrance), were determined in samples of the Somes River. The analytes were enriched by solid-phase extraction and subsequently determined by GC/MS. Caffeine, pentoxifylline, and galaxolide were determined underivatized, whereas the acidic pharmaceuticals carbamazepine, cyclophosphamide, and ibuprofen were determined after derivatization with N-methyl-N-(trimethylsilyl)-trifluoroacetamide.
Although based on a pre-existing water resources management system developed in Switzerland, the methodological approach applied to develop a GIS-based water quality management system adapted to the Romanian context followed a set of well-defined steps: the first and very important step is the assessment of needs (on the basis of a careful analysis of the various activities and missions of the water administration and other relevant stakeholders in water management related issues). On that basis, a conceptual data model (CDM) can be developed, to be later on turned into a physical database. Finally, the specifically requested additional functionalities (i.e. functionalities not provided by classical commercial GIS software), also identified during the assessment of needs, are developed. This methodology was applied, on an experimental basin, in the Ialomita River basin.
Water, soil, and atmospheric deposition samples were collected from different locations within 3 km from the industrial area. For comparison, samples were also taken from Bucharest. Water samples were filtered (&lt;0.45 microm), extracted by salpetric acid, and quantified by ICP-OES and ICP-MS. Soil samples were dried, sieved (&lt;2 mm), extracted by aqua regia and analyzed by AAS. In order to quantify the atmospheric deposition, three kinds of permanently open collecting pots were used on nine different sites between August and November 2006.
The small Certej catchment, situated in the Southern Apuseni Mountains, covers an area of 78 km(2). About 4,500 inhabitants are living in the basin, in which metal mining was the main economic sector. An open pit and several abandoned underground mines are producing heavy metal-loaded acidic water that is discharged untreated into the main river. The solid wastes of mineral processing plants were deposited in several dumps and tailings impoundment embodying the acidic water-producing mineral pyrite.
The natural science team collected samples from surface waters, drinking water from dug wells and from groundwater. Filtered and total heavy metals, both after enrichment, and major cations were analysed by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES). Major anions in waters, measured by ion chromatography, alkalinity and acidity were determined by titration. Solid samples were taken from river sediments and from the largest tailings dam. The latter were characterised by X-ray fluorescence and X-ray diffraction. Heavy metals in sediments were analysed after digestion. Simultaneously, the socioeconomic team performed a household survey to evaluate the perception of people related to the river and drinking water pollution by way of a logistic regression analysis.
Drinking water samples were collected from different sampling points in the water treatment plant (WTP) from Gilau and the corresponding distribution system in Cluj-Napoca and also from Beclean, Dej and Jibou WTPs. The water samples were collected once a month from July 2006 to November 2007 and stored in 40-mL vials closed with Teflon lined screw caps. Water samples were preserved at 4 degrees C until analysis after sodium thiosulfate (Na(2)S(2)O(3)) had been added to quench residual chlorine. All samples were analysed for THMs using headspace GC-ECD between 1 and 7 days after sampling. The sample (10 mL) was filled into 20-mL headspace vials and closed with a Teflon-lined screw cap. Thereafter, the samples were equilibrated in an oven at 60 degrees C for 45 min. The headspace (1 mL) was then injected into the GC (Cyanopropylphenyl Polysiloxane column, 30 m x 53 mm, 3 microm film thickness, Thermo Finnigan, USA). The MDLs for THMs were determined from the standard deviation of eight standards at 1 microg/L. The MDLs for CHCl(3), CHBrCl(2), CHBr(2)Cl and CHBr(3) were 0.3, 0.2, 0.3 and 0.6 microg/L, respectively. All kinetic laboratory studies were carried out only with water from the WTP Gilau. The experiments were conducted under two conditions: baseline conditions (pH 7, 21 degrees C, 2.5 mg/L Cl(2)) to gain information about the change of the organic matter in the raw water and seasonally variable conditions to simulate the actual process at the treatment plant and the distribution system.
The survey was carried out at six main sample sites along the Bahlui River. Sediments were chemically analysed for their content in polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and organochlorine pesticides (OCPs)-hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs) isomers and the dichlorodiphenyl trichloroethane (DDT) family. River water was biologically monitored at the level of phytoplankton and benthic invertebrates' communities. Water samples from six locations have been analyzed for algal species composition and correspondence to various water quality indices. Biological samples have been taken from the same locations so as to calculate the macroinvertebrate indices. In the most polluted areas, as revealed by previous methods, toxicity was tested by exposing the green alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and the cladoceran Daphnia magna to various dilutions of water sample.
The aims and scopes of different directives are compiled and compared with the actual quality of water, different approaches of standard settings are compared and potential treatment options are discussed.
A stratified probability proportionate to size cluster sampling method was used to obtain a representative national sample of school-age children from 30 clusters. Spot urine samples were collected for UIC analysis using a modified Sandell-Kolthoff method.
We used 24-h recall data from 10 851 adults, aged 19 years and over, who participated in the nationally representative 1995 National Nutrition Survey. 'Extra' foods were defined using principles outlined in the Australian Guide to Healthy Eating and by applying cut points for maximum amounts of fat and sugar within each food category.
Anthropometric measurements and CT scans were performed in 74 obese subjects. Fat thicknesses, diameters, diagonals and areas were determined. Plasma lipids, insulin, glucose and fat cell size were analyzed. A multivariate regression analysis was performed to determine the most accurate predictor index for metabolic alterations explaining the highest percentage of variance.
Subjects (n=12) consumed a high and a low GI diet in a randomized, crossover design, consisting of four meals that were matched for macronutrients and fibre, and differed only in carbohydrate quality (GI). Blood was sampled every 30-60 min and assayed for glucose, insulin, CCK and GHR.
We examined hemoglobin concentrations in relation to plasma ferritin, vitamin A, vitamin B12, and erythrocyte folate levels in a representative sample of 2812 low- and middle-income children (5-12 years) from Bogotá, Colombia.
Twenty-one studies, which enrolled a total of 1030 and 687 subjects receiving psyllium or placebo, respectively, were included in the meta-analysis. The studies were randomized placebo-controlled trials, double blinded or open label, on subjects with mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemia. The dose of psyllium was between 3.0 and 20.4 g per day and intervention period was more than 2 weeks. Any type of diet background was permitted. Diet lead-in period was between 0 and 8 weeks.
This study enrolled 100 healthy young adults aged 18-34 years. Anthropometric and blood pressure measurements and lifestyle features were analyzed. Fasting blood samples were collected for the measurement of glucose, total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triacylglycerols and C3 concentrations. Nail samples were collected for the analysis of selenium concentrations.
Nutrient profiles tested were composed of positive subscores based on nutrients to encourage and negative subscores based on nutrients to limit. Alternative profiles, computed using different bases of calculation, were used to rank order 378 commonly consumed foods from a food frequency instrument. Profile performance was tested with respect to the foods' energy density.
Skinfold thicknesses and bioimpedance analysis (whole body and limbs) were evaluated in three groups of underweight patients (30 patients with anorexia nervosa, 10 constitutionally lean individuals and 15 classical dancers) and 30 normal weight controls.
In 31 healthy children, weight, height, circumferences, skinfolds, DEXA, abdominal ultrasound and CT were performed. Measurements were compared by simple correlations and receiver operating characteristic analyses.
A double-blind controlled clinical trial was carried out, in which 112 subjects with hypertriglyceridemia were randomly divided into two dietary oil groups: (1) long-chain triacylglycerol (LCT) and (2) MLCT. All subjects were requested to ingest fixed energy and to continue their normal activity levels, and to consume LCT or MLCT oil at 25-30 g daily during the study period. Anthropometric measurements of body weight, body mass index (BMI), body fat, body fat percentage, waist and hip circumference (WC and HC), areas of subcutaneous and visceral fat by computed tomography scanning and blood biochemical markers were measured at the beginning and end of the study.
We analyzed data from a randomized, controlled, double-blinded trial (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00156832) of prophylactic micronutrient supplementation to children aged 6-24 months. Three cohorts of children: 32 HIV-infected children, 154 HIV-uninfected children born to HIV-infected mothers and 187 uninfected children born to HIV-uninfected mothers, received vitamin A, vitamin A plus zinc or multiple micronutrients, which included vitamin A and zinc. The main outcome was incidence of diarrhoea. Poisson regression was used in intent-to-treat analyses. Stratified analyses followed testing for statistical interaction between intervention and stunting.
The study was conducted on a paediatric group of 71 oral breathers selected at the Allergology and Paediatric Immunology Department of Umberto I General Hospital, University of Rome "La Sapienza" (Italy). The children were selected based on inclusion/exclusion criteria. Children aged 6 to 12 years with no history of craniofacial malformations or orthodontic treatment were included. The results were compared with a control group composed of 71 patient aged 6 to 12 years with nasal breathing. After their medical history was recorded, all patients underwent orthodontic/otolaryngological clinical examinations. The following diagnostic procedures were then performed: latero-lateral projection teleradiography, orthopantomogram, dental impressions, anterior rhinomanometry before and after administering a local vasoconstrictor, nocturnal home pulse oximetry (NHPO) recording, spirometry test, skin prick test, study cast evaluation and cephalometric analysis following Tweed's principles. The intraoral examination assessed: dental class type, overbite, overjet, midlines, crossbite, and presence of parafunctional oral habits such as atypical swallowing, labial incompetence, finger sucking and sucking of the inner lip. Evaluation of the study casts involved arch perimeter and transpalatal width assessment, and space analysis.
Observational study.
A group of 54 CF patients, aged 7 to 12 years, was selected and their data were compared to those of the same age healthy control group of 101 children.
A cross-sectional study was carried out at the school premises.
For this survey, 502 subjects attending 6 different schools in the city of Isfahan, Iran (253 females and 249 males, aged 11-14 years) were randomly selected and examined, including those who were wearing an orthodontic appliance at the time of the survey (1 female and 5 males). IOTN (DHC and AC) scores were recorded for those who were not undergoing orthodontic treatment. One examiner, who had been formally calibrated in the use of occlusal indices, screened all schoolchildren. IOTN scores was calculated from direct examination. Gender dimorphism was evaluated by the Chi-square test (AC and DHC components of IOTN index). The prevalence of most severe occlusal traits in those who scored DHC 4 and 5 was calculated.
Sixty primary incisors were divided into 6 groups according to the adhesive system (etch-and-rinse - Adper Single Bond 2 - SB, 2 steps self-etch -Clearfil SE Bond - SE, and 1 step self-etch - One Up Bond F Plus OBF) and to the substrate (ground or intact enamel): G1-SB/intact enamel; G2-SE/intact enamel; G3- OBF/intact enamel; G4-SB/ground enamel; G5- SE/ground enamel and G6-OBF/ground enamel.
Microshear bond test specimens were prepared with microhybrid composite and after 24h of water storage the microshear test was performed.
Data were submitted to statistical analysis using two-way ANOVA and Tukey's tests (p&lt;0.05).
Dental developmental delay was compared between 40 UCLP patients (20 boys and 20 girls, average age 9.6 +/- 2.7 years) and 40 BCLP patients matched by sex and age (to the nearest 6 months). For the purpose of comparison, a total of 80 panoramic radiographs of unaffected group matching in age and sex were selected randomly.
Using panoramic radiographs, the seven left mandibular permanent teeth, second molar to central incisor, were rated on eight stage scales using the methods described by Demirjian et al. [1973]. The stage of each tooth was converted to the corresponding numeric value, and then all values were added to obtain a dental maturity score, which corresponded to a dental age.
The differences in developmental delay between the two cleft groups were determined using independent t-test.
A case of a 9.6-year-old female with monocondylar and intracapsular fracture following a car accident is described. In accordance with the literature, the patient did not undergo surgical treatment, but followed a functional orthodontic protocol. The significant symptoms reduction and the rapid improvement of mandibular functions confirm the excellent healing potential in paediatric age, while the X-ray evaluations 1 year and 3.7 years later testify the condylar reshaping. Since the latter can continue over many years, the clinical and radiological follow-ups of the patient will have to cover the entire growth period.
We presented one case of en bloc resection of the carotid artery with reconstruction with superficial femoral artery transplantation.
The expression of cyclin A and E was investigated in the paraffin-embedded tumor tissue of 71 patients (53 men and 18 women; age 59.27+/-8.50 years), using a monoclonal antibodies to cyclin A and to cyclin E.
Ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice were randomized to either low-fat (LF) or high-fat (HF) diets containing either calcium phosphate from non-fat dried milk and whey mineral concentrate (dairy) or calcium carbonate (supplement).
Methylprototribestin, structurally related compounds and a mixture of 3 acetylated isomers of methylprotodioscin were investigated for antiproliferative effect and modulation of drug accumulation.
PTX was dissolved in solvent containing polyethoxylated castor oil and intraperitoneally administered to male and female Sprague-Dawley rats at a dose of 0, 2, 4 and 8 mg/kg at 0 day of age, 4 mg/kg at 14 days of age, or 8 mg/kg at 12-18 weeks of age. Eyes were histologically examined 1 and/or 7 days after PTX.
In this study, the results of twelve years single-institution experience on 60 consecutive patients affected by PMP, treated by cytoreductive surgery and the original semi-closed HIPEC technique are reported with special reference to overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS).
On 14 women undergoing EBBLA, all the aforementioned molecules were measured in peripheral venous blood samples prior (baseline), during (at 10 and 30 minutes), at the end of EBBLA (46+/-9 minutes) and one hour after its end.
The percutaneous heart valve (PhV) was constructed from state-of-the-art polymers, metals and fabrics. It was tested hydrodynamically using a modified left heart simulator (Lhs) and statically using a tensile testing device.
Microencapsulated hepLL cells were grown at high yield in large-scale roller bottles, with free cells cultured in roller bottle spinners serving as controls. The mechanical stability and the permeability of the AC microcapsules were investigated, and the growth, metabolism and functions of the encapsulated hepLL cells were evaluated as compared to free cells.
40 employed hemodialysis patients completed a self-administered questionnaire. Associations between ERI, short Form 12 (sF-12), short Form - 6 Dimensions (sF-6D), Kidney Disease QOL- 36 (KDQOL-36) and WAI were tested with partial Spearman's correlation adjusted for age, income, and comorbidity burden.
Participants included doctors, palliative and non-palliative ward nurses working in Miyagi Cancer Center, Natori, Japan. The various components of a 'good death' for cancer patients have been identified in a previous Japanese study. In the present study, respondents were asked to state the percentages of patients for which the component had been achieved, the extent to which the respondent contributed to achieving the component, and the concrete means they would use to ensure that patients were free from psychological distress and prepared for dying.
Fifteen nurses were randomly allocated to either receive training in cognitive behavioural techniques or to continue their practice as usual. Nurses were interviewed following the CBT training and after the research study.
A small group learning approach to design and undertake an audit.
Nine semiprofessional soccer players with a mean age of 20.7+/-1.4 years volunteered to participate in the study. Participants completed a slalom dribble test and the Loughborough Soccer Shooting Test (LSST), before and directly following the performance of three 15-min bouts of a modified version of the Loughborough Intermittent Shuttle Test (LIST).
10 male squash and 10 male association-football and rugby-union players completed the Illinois agility run (IAR) and a squash change-of-direction-speed test (SCODS) on separate days. Tests were repeated after 24 h to assess reproducibility. The best time from three attempts was recorded in each trial.
Total times and intermediate times were obtained from the 2007 and 2008 cycling World Championships in the 1-km TT and 2006, 2007, and 2008 World Championships in the 3- and 4-km IP. Data were analyzed to examine the pacing-profiles employed and pacing strategies of "slow" and "fast" performances.
Fourteen Australian Women's National Water Polo Squad members performed the MSST and WIST, and 13 players from a National Water Polo League club performed the IST, MSST and WIST on separate occasions (no goalkeepers were involved). Peak heart rate, blood lactate and ratings of perceived exertion were obtained for all tests. Expired air was collected following all tests for the National League players.
Seventeen male club rowers (mean+/-SD, age 28.8+/-5.7 years, height 186.9+/-5.1 cm, body mass 85.4+/-6.6 kg) performed an incremental rowing ergometer test, consisting of five stages of 4 min corresponding to approximately 80% HRmax. A 10-microL earlobe blood sample was collected from each subject at 15 s and again at 45 s in the final minute of each test stage and analyzed in duplicate. A maximum of 10 s was allowed for blood collection.
Fifty-four sport and physical education students were randomly allocated to one of two training groups (combined uphill-downhill [U+D] and horizontal (H)) and a control group (C). Pre- and posttraining tests were performed to examine the effects of 8 wk of training on the maximum running speed (MRS), step rate, step length, step time, contact time, eccentric and concentric phase of contact time (EP, CP), flight time, selected posture characteristics of the step cycle, and 6-s maximal cycle sprint test.
Following determination of 1-rep maximum in single-leg leg extension, 15 males performed reps to failure at 60% 1-RM in 3 conditions: control, perceived caffeine condition, and perceived placebo condition presented in a randomized order. Participants were informed they would ingest 250 mL of solution that contained either 3 mg.kg(-1) caffeine or 3 mg.kg(-1) placebo 1 h before each exercise trial. A deceptive protocol was employed and subjects consumed a placebo solution in both conditions. During each condition, total reps, RPE for the active muscle and overall body, and PHR were recorded.
Seven youth male and six female team-sport athletes performed two sessions separated by 7 d, involving a 30-min exercise protocol and 60-min passive recovery in either 22 degrees C or 33 degrees C and 40% relative humidity. The exercise protocol involved a 20-s maximal sprint every 5 min, separated by constant-intensity exercise at 100 W on a cycle ergometer. Maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) and a resting evoked twitch (Pf) of the right knee extensors were assessed before and immediately following exercise and again 15, 30, and 60 min postexercise, and capillary blood was obtained at the same time points to measure lactate, pH, and HCO3. During and following exercise, core temperature, heart rate and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were also measured.
A number of different time motion characteristics were monitored using a portable 5-Hz global positioning system (GPS) unit (Catapult, Melbourne, Australia).
Cross-sectional study.
Cadavers of 80 semiferal domestic cats.
BAL fluid collection and analysis, necropsy, examination of fecal samples and minced lung tissue via the Baermann technique, fecal sedimentation-flotation, and histologic examination of lung tissue were performed. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) for detection of A abstrusus infection were calculated.
Cross-sectional study.
161 dogs and 43 cats with CPA.
Data were gathered during a 60-month period on animals that had CPA and underwent CPCR. Logistic regression was used to evaluate effects of multiple predictors for ROSC.
Prospective study.
818 dogs and cats admitted to the emergency room.
During the 2007 New England Patriots (NEP) football season, small animal emergency room caseload was recorded for Sunday (4-hour blocks, 8:00 AM until 12:00 midnight) and Monday night (7:00 PM to 11:00 PM). Number of dogs and cats that subsequently were hospitalized, died, or were euthanatized was recorded. Mean game importance rating (GIR) was determined for NEP games (scale, 1 [mild] to 3 [great]).
A 4-year-old spayed female mixed-breed dog with a history of allergic skin disease was examined because of regurgitation, coughing, and dysphagia that began 15 days after abdominal surgery for correction of gastric dilatation and volvulus.
An 8-month-old sexually intact male rabbit was examined because of a 2-day history of anorexia, epiphora of the left eye, bruxism, hypersalivation, and ataxia.
Cross-sectional study.
36 horses with fragmentation of the MCP (n = 19) and MTP (29) joints.
In all joints, radiography (4 standard projections) and ultrasonography were performed prior to arthroscopic examination and fragment removal. Number and location of fragments identified radiographically and ultrasonographically were compared with arthroscopic findings.
Randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded, crossover field trial.
167 Thoroughbred racehorses.
Horses were allocated to race fields of 9 to 16 horses each and raced twice, 1 week apart, with each of the 2 races consisting of the same race field and distance. Each horse received furosemide (500 mg, IV) before one race and a placebo (saline solution) before the other, with the order of treatments randomly determined. Severity of EIPH was scored on a scale from 0 to 4 after each race by means of tracheobronchoscopy. Data were analyzed by means of various methods of multivariable logistic regression.
Cross-sectional study.
Animal shelters across the United States in which euthanasia was conducted (5 to 100 employees/shelter).
With the assistance of experts associated with the Humane Society of the United States, the authors identified 88 animal shelters throughout the United States in which animal euthanasia was actively conducted and for which contact information regarding the shelter director was available. Staff at 62 animal shelters agreed to participate in the survey. Survey packets were mailed to the 62 shelter directors, who then distributed them to employees. The survey included questions regarding respondent age, level of education, and role and asked those directly involved in the euthanasia of animals to provide advice on strategies for new euthanasia technicians to deal with the related stress. Employees completed the survey and returned it by mail. Content analysis techniques were used to summarize survey responses.
Clinical samples were collected from diabetic patients in hospitals throughout Saudi Arabia from December 2006 to April 2007. API 20 Ne, polymorphisms in the 16S-23S-rRNA intergenic region and the presence of a bla( OXA-51-like )gene were all used for identification. Susceptibility to antimicrobials was determined using agar dilution and disk diffusion methods. pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (pfGe) coupled with sequence analysis of the bla(OXA-51-like )genes were used for strain characterization. Polymerase chain reaction (pCR) and multiplex pCR were used to screen for the presence and location of ISAba1 elements and bla(OXA-23-like), bla(OXA-40-like), and bla(OXA-58-like )genes respectively.
BCRP expression was verified by immunostaining and Western blots in intact porcine brain capillaries, isolated endothelial cells (PBCECs) and in MDCKII-cells over-expressing human wild-type BCRP (MDCKII-hBCRP). Transport of fluorescent mitoxantrone across cells was determined to assess a preferred transport direction. Sensitivity of cultured cells versus mitoxantrone in the absence and in the presence of transport modulators was examined at increasing concentrations of the cytostatic using the AlamarBlue assay. In addition, cells were incubated with mitoxantrone in the absence and presence of increasing concentrations of different compounds with the potential to interact with BCRP. Intracellular fluorescence accumulation was measured using a flow cytometer.
A total of 362 patients who were compliant with preparation instructions were enrolled. All colonoscopic examinations were performed by an experienced endoscopist and the quality of the preparation was graded by the endoscopist (excellent to poor). Patient demographic and medical history information was gathered before the procedure. Possible predictors of inadequate colonic preparation were analyzed using univariate statistics and multivariate logistic regression models.
An electronic survey was developed and administered to all gastroenterologists and hepatologists [gastroenterologists (GI) group] and a sampling of nonprocedure-oriented internal medicine specialists and subspecialists (non-GI group) employed by Mayo Clinic. The questionnaire assessed several areas including current or past pain injury associated with performing endoscopy, location and description of pain or injury, impact of pain or injury, and prevention strategies. A modified survey was sent to the control group.
Subjects without anal abnormalities and patients with anal disease (abscesses, fistulas) were evaluated.
This study enrolled 1187 patients, including controls, those with gastric cancer (GC), benign gastric ulcer (BGU), and duodenal ulcer patients. Six polymorphisms were genotyped, 3 of IL-10 (at -592, -819, and -1082), 1 of IL-8 (at -251), and 2 of IL-6 (at -174 and -572), by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.
In this prospective study, 236 obese children (age: 7 to 16 y) were interviewed using a standard questionnaire for reflux symptoms and a reflux symptom score was calculated. Obesity was defined as body mass index (BMI) greater than 95th percentile for age and sex. One hundred and one age-matched and sex-matched children with BMI between 5th and 95th percentile served as controls. Demographic data were collected in all children. We compared prevalence rates of a reflux symptom score and other symptoms between the 2 groups.
A nonrandomized, prospective observational study of adjusted-dose combination therapy. Twenty patients were enrolled and began pegylated interferon at 135 microg/wk SC, and 4 weeks later ribavirin was started at 200 mg PO weekly, increasing gradually to 3 times a week for a total of 48 weeks.
Between March 2002 and December 2005, PTVE was attempted in 92 patients with esophageal varices, 74 patients with recent variceal bleeding, 18 patients with acute variceal bleeding. The 2-OCA was injected into the entire lower esophageal and periesophageal or paraesophageal varices, the cardial submucosal, and perforating vessels.
Thirty-seven patients with asthma (19) and chronic cough (18) were recruited from the respiratory clinic. Reflux was monitored using a combined multichannel intraluminal impedance and pH probe by detecting (1) bolus reflux episodes within the esophagus and in the pharynx and (2) acidic reflux episodes within the esophagus and in the pharynx. All acid suppressive therapy was stopped for at least 7 days before the study. Demonstration of cough being linked to reflux was achieved using the symptom association probability (SAP). This was calculated using a 2-minute association window between symptoms and bolus entry into the esophagus. SAP was considered positive if &gt;95%.
Patients (n=126) were divided into 4 groups according to median levels of AFP and PIVKA-II (L; low/low, A; high/low, P; low/high, H; high/high) at diagnosis. Clinical characteristics and survival were compared among the groups, and Cox regression analysis was performed to find independent factors for survival.
We genotyped 1028 IBD patients, including 443 CD and 347 ulcerative colitis (UC) non-Jewish cases, 238 (183 CD and 55 UC) Jewish cases, and 1005 ethnically matched control subjects for 18 and 11 variants, respectively, in the IL-23R and ATG16L1 genes, including the IL-23R (R381Q) and ATG16L1 (T216A) variants, previously associated with CD.
A prospective analysis of intraoperative bile duct cultures in patients undergoing surgery for both, malignant or benign periampullary diseases at the Department of Surgery, St Josef Hospital, Bochum, Germany, during a period of 18 months, between January 2004 and June 2005.
In all patients with a hepaticojejunostomy (n=80), a bile duct culture was collected during the operation. All patients received antibiotic prophylaxis perioperatively and a retrograde flushing of bile ducts with warm saline after bile duct resection. Fifty-one percent (41/80) patients had biliary drainage before surgery, whereas 49% (39/80) were operated without preoperative draining procedures.
Eighty-four adult volunteers, actively experiencing pain, participated in this prospective, randomized, double-blinded study. All patients received standard IANB of 2% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine. Twenty-four patients did not receive supplemental infiltrations (control). Thirty patients received supplemental buccal and lingual infiltrations of 2% articaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine, and 30 patients received buccal and lingual infiltrations of 2% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine at 2 minutes after the IANB. Endodontic access preparation was initiated after 15 minutes of initial IANB. Pain during treatment was recorded by using a Heft Parker visual analog scale. Success was recorded as "none" or "mild" pain.
The study began with targeted electronic searches of MEDLINE, PubMed, and Cochrane databases, followed with exhaustive hand searching and citation mining for all articles reporting clinical and/or radiographic outcomes for at least a mean follow-up of 2 years for these procedures. Pooled and weighted success rates were determined from a meta-analysis of the data abstracted from the articles.
A total of 225 maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars endodontically treated by undergraduate or postgraduate students were randomly selected from a computerized hospital database of which 110 molars had been prepared using a hybrid rotary technique with nickel-titanium instruments (group NR) and 115 with hand stainless steel files (group HF). Patients were recalled and the teeth were examined both clinically and radiographically for signs of periapical inflammation.
We searched a database of 23,000 small-volume cone beam computed tomography scans and evaluated the first 200 patients that met the following inclusion criteria: (1) age between 30-69 years; (2) known gender (n = 25 males and 25 females for each 10-year age bin); and (3) scans containing the mandibular first molar and IAN. Exclusion criteria consisted of any pathosis that might alter the position of the IAN. Anatomic measurements were made by 2 observers with mutual agreement of any discordant measures. Fourteen measurements (in millimeters) were taken at the level of the IAN and mesial and distal root apices. Data were analyzed by 2-way (age, sex) analysis of variance with Bonferroni post hoc test at P &lt;.05.
Thirty-four adult patients who presented for apicoectomy of persistent periradicular lesions after endodontic therapy were selected for the study and samples of periradicular tissue and resected root ends collected. Total bacterial levels were estimated for 34 paired periradicular lesions and root ends using real-time polymerase chain reaction with universal bacterial primers. Sixteen pairs of these samples were analyzed using ribosomal 16S cloning and sequencing for bacterial identification.
Of 271 patients who had chronic persistent pain that did not respond to previous endodontic procedures and were referred to the Endodontic Team of the Nippon Dental University Hospital, 16 patients (5.9%; mean age, 46.8 years; 13 women) who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for NTP were recruited. The inclusion criteria for the patients were the presence of chronic persistent pain and other pain-related symptoms, despite the absence of major pathology.
Twenty-eight teeth had their WLs determined with each electronic apex locator (EAL) by using 0.04 taper ProFiles sizes 40-20 in a crown-down technique until WL was reached. Four control teeth had their WL determined by using stainless steel hand files. The files were cemented at WL, and the teeth were extracted. The apical 4 mm of each root was shaved to the apical constriction, exposing the file. Photographs were taken under 15x and 30x magnification and projected at 360x and 720x for evaluation.
A written survey was developed and mailed to 1505 randomly selected practicing endodontists within the United States.
Twenty patients with clinically diagnosed cervical dentin hypersensitive teeth were included and randomly allocated to either the application of fluoride varnish (group fluoride) or Nd:YAG laser (100 mJ, 20 Hz; group Nd:YAG). The assessment of pain and discomfort was performed by a visual analog scale after an air blast at baseline, immediately after treatment, and at patient visits on weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4.
Mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) were used as a model because they lack an adaptive immune response. The expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4 in experimentally inflamed pulps in SCID mice was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Total RNA was isolated from pulp tissues at 0 to 24 hours after bacterial dentinal infection. Anti-TLR-2, anti-TLR-4 cells, anti-CD64, and antinestin cells were detected with labeled streptavidin-biotin methods.
Collagen-coated hydroxyapatite (C-HA) and uncoated hydroxyapatite (HA) disks were inoculated with dispersed subgingival plaque for 3 weeks. Thick biofilms rich in spirochetes were formed on both substrates. Biofilms were subjected to 1-, 3-, and 10-minute exposures to CHX-Plus (Vista Dental Products, Racine, WI) and 2% chlorhexidine (CHX). After treatment, the volume ratio of dead bacteria to all bacteria in biofilms, indicated by the ratio of red and (red + green) fluorescence, was analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy for each medicament.
Saliva that was tested to be free of E. faecalis was used as the inoculum. The fate of E. faecalis was examined by using culture techniques and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).
In cultured cells, MAP-1B expression was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction, flow cytometry, and Western blot. Its distribution was visualized by in situ hybridization and immunochemistry both in vitro and in vivo. The expression of FMRP, MAP2, and tau was identified by real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunochemistry.
MDPC-23 cells were exposed to 100 ng/mL Escherichia coli LPS, and artificial wounds were induced in the right first molar of the maxillary of rats. In addition, a morphological change in the MDPC-23 cells was observed after LPS treatment. MDPC-23 cells were transfected transiently with the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) promoter binding vector.
Forty-four extracted mandibular second molars with C-shaped roots were collected from a Chinese population. Size 10 or 15 K files were used to explore the canal orifices when viewed under the surgical operating microscope. Choices in the number and position of the files inserted into the canal system were based on the different orifice shape. After the teeth with files were scanned and reconstructed, the number and position of the files were analyzed.
The periapex of 83 treated or untreated roots of dogs' teeth was examined using periapical radiography (PR), cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) scans, and histology. Sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and accuracy of PR and CBCT diagnosis were calculated.
ProTaper Universal instruments F3 and F4 (Maillefer SA, Ballaigues, Switzerland) were used in an artificial curved canal under rotational speeds of 300 rpm or 600 rpm. The artificial canal was made of stainless steel, with an inner diameter of 1.5 mm, total length of 20 mm, and arc at the end with a curvature radius of 6 mm. The arc length was 9.4 mm and 10.6 mm on the straight part. The number of cycles required to fracture was recorded. Fractured surfaces and the helical shafts of the fractured instruments were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy.
Sixty-four extracted human teeth were used, with 2 teeth each as positive and negative controls. Endodontic access with a mesio-occluso-distal cavity was prepared. Palatal cusps of maxillary molars and buccal cusps of mandibular molars were removed. Cotton was placed over the canals and covered with Cavit. Thirty teeth were restored with Ketac Silver (KS) and 30 with KS reinforced with a stainless steel band (KSSB). Samples were submersed in India ink mixed with brain heart infusion broth containing Streptococcus gordonii. After 3 months of simulated chewing, structural integrity and dye and bacterial penetration were assessed.
Sixty bovine incisors were randomly divided into six groups (n = 10): G1, 5.25% NaOCl + 17% EDTA; G2, 2% chlorhexidine (CHX) gel; G3, 5.25% NaOCl; G4, 17% EDTA; G5, 2% CHX + 17% EDTA; and G6, 0.9% sodium chloride solution (control). Teeth were chemomechanically prepared and fractured into two fragments. One fragment was used for PLM, and the other was used for SEM analysis.
In stage 1, experiments were performed to characterize the efficacy of collapsing cavitation bubbles to deliver the miniature plaster beads into a tubular channel model. In stage 2, experiments were conducted on root-dentin blocks to test the efficacy of HIFU applied at 27 kHz for 2 minutes to deliver antibacterial nanoparticles into dentinal tubules. After the stage 2 experiment, the samples were sectioned and analyzed using field-emission scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive X-ray analysis.
Roots of 60 maxillary incisors were used. Twenty-four hours after obturation, the filling materials of root canals were removed to a depth of 12 mm, and 4 groups were randomly formed. In 3 groups, root dentin was flared to produce a space between fiber post and canal walls. In the control group, the roots were not experimentally weakened. The flared roots were bulk restored with composite resin, which was light-activated through the translucent post for 40, 80, or 120 seconds. Posts were cemented, and after 24 hours, all roots were sectioned transversely in the coronal, middle, and apical regions, producing 1-mm-thick slices. Push-out test was performed, and failure modes were observed.
The plastic blocks were divided into seven groups. The control (C) group with brain-heart infusion (BHI) broth (sterile) received only needle irrigation. The remaining groups were incubated with BHI inoculated with Enterococcus faecalis. Irrigation and agitation techniques were ultrasonic, needle irrigation, EndoVac irrigation (Smart Endodontics; Discus Dental, Culver City, CA), EndoActivator (Dentsply Tulsa Dental Specialties, Tulsa, OK), F-File (Plastic Endo, Lincolnshire, IL), and sonic. Sterile water was the irrigant in all treatments. Remaining bacteria were stained with 0.1% crystal violet. The crystal violet was extracted using a detergent and measured spectrophotometrically.
Based on prescans, mandibular molars with joining mesial root canals and isthmuses between these were selected (n = 6). The mean volume filled with apparent hard-tissue debris after instrumentation without irrigation was calculated over 2 mm of the mesial canal system by multiplying the voxel volume with the number of voxels representing acquired radiopaque material. Backscattered electron imaging was used to compare the calcium-phosphorus content of this material with that of the root dentin in the same specimen.
A sample of 36 human upper canines was prepared and assigned to experimental groups (n = 12), designated as group 1, Resilon/Epiphany; group 2, Resilon/Epiphany SE; and group 3, AH Plus/gutta-percha. After the filling procedures, each tooth was prepared for push-out assessment by using root slices of 1-mm thickness. Loading was performed on a universal testing machine at a speed of 0.5 mm/min. One-way analysis of variance and Tukey test for multiple comparisons were used to compare the results among the experimental groups.
A modified direct contact test was used. Bacteria in suspension were exposed to the materials for 2-60 minutes by using sealers that were freshly mixed or set for 1, 3, and 7 days. The pH values and contact angles of sterile water on sealers at different times after setting were also measured.
Sixty extracted maxillary molars (180 canals) used in prior studies were reevaluated for analyses of the apical 4 mm. Teeth were scanned by using micro-computed tomography before and after canal shaping with FlexMaster, GT-Rotary, Lightspeed, ProFile, ProTaper, instruments or nickel-titanium K-files for hand instrumentation. Apical preparation was to a size #40 in mesiobuccal and distobuccal and #45 in palatal canals except for GT (#20) and ProTaper (#25 in mesiobuccal and distobuccal and #30 in palatal canals, respectively). Data for canal volume changes, the structure model index (quantifying canal cross sections), and untreated surface area were contrasted by using analysis of variance and Scheffé tests.
In this report, four cases are presented involving the root canal treatment of maxillary first and second molars with unusual morphologic configurations of the palatal root canals.
Qualitative in-depth interview study.
4 NHS hospital trusts.
24 junior doctors who had been offered an HIV test as part of their pre-employment occupational health checks.
Qualitative study from an academic cardiology clinic, using semistructured interviews with 18 survivors of sudden cardiac death.
Secondary analysis of qualitative data from 26 black Caribbean and 19 white British patients with advanced cancer.
The analysis used data from the NLSY79, a nationally representative sample of 12,686 men and women. The NLSY79 collected detailed information about personal and family characteristics, including alcohol and other substance use, for a cohort of individuals who were between the ages of 14 and 22 when first surveyed in 1979. The survey was re-administered each year through 1994 and on a biennial basis since then. The dataset provides information on parental drinking and identifies problematic drinking behaviors both among mothers and fathers. Beginning with the 1998 survey, an extensive health module was administered to respondents over 40 years of age to provide a baseline health profile of the respondents before retirement. It includes a set of measures that assess the mental, physical, and behavioral health of the respondents when they reached the age of 40.
Estimation was conducted using propensity score matching (PSM) methods. Through the use of PSM methods, we control for a rich set of observed demographic, household, geographic, and economic characteristics, as well as unobserved features correlated with these variables, that predispose a parent to drink problematically, thereby reducing the possibility of estimation bias. In addition, PSM is superior to traditional multivariate regression in that it allows for the possibility of non-linear effects and the comparison of treatment and control individuals with similar characteristics.
Two country typologies are investigated. The first typology uses the Grade of Membership approach to group 112 countries with similar policies, programs, legislation, treatment and mental health funding methods for 2001. The second is the hierarchical cluster approach, which uses scientific papers and patents from 118 countries as proxies for science and technology in 2001.
Data were collected in five municipalities in Pirkanmaa Hospital District, Finland, using a short questionnaire containing questions on e.g. the reason for the visit, time spent during the visit, and of the client's psychosocial functioning (Global Assessment of Function Scale, GAF). The questionnaire was completed at all individual clients' visits to these services during a two-week period in December 2003, by professionals (MD's, nurses, social workers etc.) who worked in either local health or social services. Descriptive statistics and several regression techniques were used to describe and analyse factors associated with the use and costs of services.
This study uses two linked, nationally representative surveys, the 1999 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and the 2000 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), to identify the population of interest. Depression was systematically assessed using a short form of the World Health Organization's (WHO) Composite International Diagnostic Interview--Short Form (CIDI-SF). To control for differences from potentially confounding factors, we matched depressed cases to controls using propensity score matching.
We performed a retrospective cohort study among 2201 five-year survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma treated before age 51 between 1965 and 1995. We compared incidence rates of clinically verified stroke and TIA with those in the general population. We used multivariable Cox regression techniques to study treatment-related factors and other risk factors. All statistical tests were two-sided.
We analyzed formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded Merkel cell carcinoma tissue samples from 114 of 207 patients diagnosed with Merkel cell carcinoma in Finland from 1979 to 2004 for the presence of MCPyV DNA with the use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitative PCR, and DNA sequencing and examined associations between tumor MCPyV DNA status and histopathologic factors and survival. The median follow-up time after Merkel cell carcinoma diagnosis for subjects who were alive was 9.9 years (range = 4.9-21.9 years). All P values are two-sided.
We collected information on treatment, mortality, chronic medical conditions, and neurocognitive functioning of adult 5-year survivors of CNS malignancies diagnosed between 1970 and 1986 within the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study. Using competing risk framework, we calculated cumulative mortality according to cause of death and cumulative incidence of subsequent neoplasms according to exposure and dose of cranial radiation therapy (RT). Neurocognitive impairment and socioeconomic outcomes were assessed with respect to dose of CNS radiotherapy to specific brain regions. Cumulative incidence of chronic medical conditions was compared between survivors and siblings using Cox regression models. All tests of statistical significance were two-sided.
Criteria that are based on four clinical or public health applications were used to compare BCRAT with BCRATplus7, which includes the seven genotypes. Criteria included number of expected life-threatening events for the decision to take tamoxifen, expected decision losses (in units of the loss from giving a mammogram to a woman without detectable breast cancer) for the decision to have a mammogram, rates of risk reclassification, and number of lives saved by risk-based allocation of screening mammography. For all calculations, the following assumptions were made: Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, linkage equilibrium across SNPs, additive effects of alleles at each locus, no interactions on the logistic scale among SNPs or with factors in BCRAT, and independence of SNPs from factors in BCRAT.
NDRG4 promoter methylation was analyzed in human colorectal cancer cell lines, colorectal tissue, and noncancerous colon mucosa by using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and bisulfite sequencing. NDRG4 mRNA and protein expression were studied using real-time-PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Tumor suppressor functions of NDRG4 were examined by colony formation, cell proliferation, and migration and invasion assays in colorectal cancer cell lines that were stably transfected with an NDRG4 expression construct. Quantitative methylation-specific PCR was used to examine the utility of NDRG4 promoter methylation as a biomarker in fecal DNA from 75 colorectal cancer patients and 75 control subjects. All P values are two-sided.
Records were reviewed from 273 autopsies performed to investigate asbestosis over an 11-year period. Accrued data included age and gender as well as the presence or absence of the following: occupational exposure to asbestos, antemortem clinical diagnosis of asbestosis by chest radiograph, fibrous pleural plaques, peribronchiolar or interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, ferruginous bodies in histologic sections of lung tissue, and ferruginous bodies in digested lung tissue.
A retrospective review of all pediatric patients surgically treated with a calcaneonavicular coalition resection from January 1999 to December 2006, was performed. Presenting symptoms and examination findings were recorded. Postoperative examinations and imaging studies were evaluated to grade reossification, and functional outcomes were assessed for all patients with minimum 1-year postoperative follow-up. In addition, a cadaveric study was performed to compare the efficacy of EDB and fat graft interposition in terms of filling the postresection gap.
Fifty-two patients with a mean age of 13.7 years (range, 5 to 21 y) were randomized to receive either BtX-A or an equivalent volume of sterile saline solution (placebo group), as a single dose during the surgical procedure. Pain, medication use, quality of life, and functional mobility outcomes were assessed in all patients. Adverse events were reported for all patients and classified as minor or major.
Data for this study were culled from the Kids' Inpatient Database for the years 2000, 2003, and 2006 using the E-code for injuries caused by agricultural machinery to identify the study group. Only those children with fractures (nonskull) and/or amputations were included for analysis.
The study group consisted of patients of less than 18 years of age from the National Trauma Data Bank with a reported in-hospital mortality status. Variables analyzed were (1) patient demographics, (2) Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) values, (3) ED vital signs, (4) injury mechanism, and (5) number of days from trauma until admission. Chi-square-assisted interaction detection (CHAID) profiled patient subgroups. The final cohort was randomly divided into 2 equal sets: a training set to subgroup patients and a testing set to validate the prediction accuracy.
Five separate observers on 2 separate occasions evaluated 30 AP and 30 frog-leg lateral radiographs of patients with unilateral SCFE for head/shaft angle, percent epiphyseal displacement, and width of epiphysis lateral to Klein's Line.
One hundred and five patients with 129 slips (24 bilateral) were reviewed. Minimum follow-up was 5 years and mean follow-up was 66 months. Slips over 60 degrees were considered grade 3. All of the patients underwent in situ pinning with a single cannulated screw; the placement of the screw was evaluated with the criteria of Stambough. The final evaluation was performed using the Iowa Hip Score and results were analyzed by sex, age at time of diagnosis, and body mass index. Statistical analysis was carried out using the Mann-Whitney U-test considering a P value of less than 0.005 to be statistically significant.
This paper presents 2 unusual cases of Choi type II sequelae associated with a large osteocartilaginous prominence or bump of the femoral head, responsible for cam-type femoroacetabular impingement in preadolescence.
Datasets were created from UPDB statewide birth certificates and from the University of Utah Health Sciences Center enterprise data warehouse using records for DDH and linked to the UPDB. Controls for the dataset were selected that matched cases on birth year and sex and 10 controls were selected per case. Statistics computed for each family were the number of descendants, the observed number of affected, the expected number of affected, P value, familial standardize incidence ratio, relative risks (RRs), and standard error. A kinship analysis tool was used to find pedigrees with excess DDH.
The participants were adolescents with idiopathic scoliosis from a randomized clinical trial comparing 2 spinal implants. Patients, and their parents, were surveyed by mail before (May 2005) and after (January 2008) receiving the results of the study. The first survey focused on clinical trial experience, satisfaction with surgery, and eliciting the preferred method for receiving clinical trial results. The second survey examined patient and parent reactions to the trial results letter.
Functional and SF-36 questionnaires were sent to the 66 patients with achondroplasia who underwent instrumented lumbar fusion at our institution from 1991 to 2006. Of the 35 who returned questionnaires, 13 had fusions to the sacrum and 22 did not. Chi-square analysis and a t test were used to evaluate outcomes. Significance was set at P&lt;0.05 or a 95% confidence interval that did not cross 1.
Hemiepiphysiodesis for angular deformity in 63 lower extremities from 2000 to 2007 were retrospectively reviewed. Thirty-nine limbs received staple hemiepiphysiodesis and 24 received 8-plate hemiepiphysiodesis. Angular measurements were compared preoperatively, during the first year postoperatively, and at the time of hardware removal or skeletal maturity. Complications requiring additional surgery for the correction of angular deformity were noted in each group.
Quadriceps peak torque values from 55 athletes who underwent ACL reconstruction were analyzed. The mean age of the patients was 15.93+/-1.65 years (40 girls, 15 boys). Isokinetic data were obtained using the Biodex System 3. Quadriceps muscle recovery was defined as achieving &gt;or=85% peak torque for side-to-side comparison.
A retrospective study was performed on 91 children (average age 3.2+/-2.2 y) who lacked external rotation beyond neutral and had magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of bilateral shoulders performed at our institution between 2000 and 2007. The charts were reviewed for the measurement of the external rotation of the involved shoulder with the arm adducted and the scapula stabilized. The glenoscapular angle (glenoid version), the percentage of the humeral head anterior to the middle of the glenoid fossa (PHHA), and the angle of rotation of the biceps tendon (biceps angle) were measured on MRI scans of both shoulders. Statistical analysis was performed to compare these MRI measurements for the involved and uninvolved sides, and to identify the correlations between them and the external rotation.
Eighty-five children with BPBP between 6 and 18 years of age were queried about their participation in athletics. Information regarding sports played, duration of activity, level of participation, and injuries sustained was obtained and compared with published age-matched normative pediatric data. In addition, measurements of upper limb function and patient/parent-derived functional outcomes assessments were obtained using the modified Mallet classification, the Toronto Test Score, the Hospital for Sick Children Active Movement Scale, and the Pediatric Outcomes Data Collection Instrument.
A retrospective case series was performed, consisting of 33 children with hemiplegic-type cerebral palsy who had undergone surgical reconstruction of the thumb between 1998 and 2006. All children had preoperative and postoperative Shriners Hospital Upper Extremity Evaluation analyses performed (mean time to follow-up was 2 y and 2 mo). Static modified House scale of thumb alignment, dynamic thumb positional analysis, and the spontaneous functional use of the involved extremity were compared and contrasted.
Thirteen patients (6 male, 7 female) with a mean age of 10.5 years, underwent single percutaneous injection of alpha-BSM for presumed UBC. The aspiration of the cysts was followed by vigorous saline lavage using 2 wide bore needles to disrupt the cyst walls. alpha-BSM "paste" was then injected under fluoroscopic guidance. Radiographs were digitized to measure cystic area (millimeter squares) on 2 orthogonal views. Healing was rated according to a modified Neer outcome grading system. Nine of the 13 patients had had pathologic fractures in the past. Eleven of the 13 patients had had past unsuccessful treatment: multiple steroid injections in 6, curettage and bone grafting in 3, and bone marrow and demineralized bone matrix (Grafton) injection in 2.
We prospectively collected data from children presenting to Birmingham Children's Hospital and The Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne who fitted our diagnostic criteria for septic arthritis and osteomyelitis over a 52-month period. Inclusion criteria for entry into the database were children &lt;or=16 years of age who had no underlying disease or medical therapy predisposing to infection, and who had symptoms for less than 14 days before presentation. They were all started on intravenous antibiotics and a predetermined treatment algorithm was followed. All patients with septic arthritis also underwent joint washout. The patients were converted to oral antibiotics once they improved clinically and hematologically. Regular outpatient follow-up continued for 1 year with blood tests and x-rays.
We matched 30 patients in the early stage and 30 patients in the late stage of bipolar disorder, diagnosed according to DSM-IV criteria, with 60 healthy controls (30 matched for each group of patients). We measured symptomatic status using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and the Young Mania Rating Scale.
We implanted rats with a VNS electrode and stimulator. We used the selective noradrenergic toxin DSP-4 to lesion NE neurons of the locus coeruleus. We recorded dorsal raphe 5-HT neurons under chloral hydrate anesthesia. We recorded hippocampus CA(3) pyramidal neurons using 5-barreled iontophoretic pipettes.
We investigated cell densities and sizes in BA24 among suicide completers and matched sudden-death controls. We examined a 1-cm(3) tissue block from BA24a of the supracallosal ACC in 26 human postmortem brain specimens (13 depressed individuals who committed suicide and 13 controls). We assessed neuronal and glial cell densities as well as neuronal soma sizes in the upper and lower cortical layers using optical fractionator and nucleator 3-dimensional stereological probes.
We compared 2 groups of unmedicated female patients with BPD (10 with and 15 without comorbid PTSD) and 25 healthy female controls. We used T(1)- and T(2)-weighted magnetic resonance images for manual tracing and 3-dimensional reconstruction of the hippocampus and amygdala.
Eleven patients with gSAD who were not taking psychotropic medications and did not have psychiatric comorbidities and 11 matched healthy controls underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while viewing blocks of emotionally salient (positive, negative, neutral) pictures.
We obtained electroencephalography recordings from 28 patients with first-episode schizophrenia and matched healthy controls during perception of facial emotion under both conscious and nonconscious conditions. We extracted gamma-band synchrony from the electroencephalogram. We also used behavioural measures of emotion identification, emotional intelligence, negativity bias and social function, along with ratings of first-episode schizophrenia symptoms. We analyzed group differences and predicted social cognition to assess the potential contribution of medication.
Between August and December 2006, we assessed ASRs (elicited by 8 consecutive tones of 104 dB, interstimulus interval of about 2 min) in 25 patients and 25 matched controls using a case-control design and in 9 nonaffected siblings. We recorded the electromyographic activity of 6 muscles and the sympathetic skin response. We investigated response occurrence (probability %) and response magnitude (area under the curve in microV x ms) of the combined response of 6 muscles and of the single blink response.
We determined serum BDNF, platelet 5-HT content and platelet 5-HT uptake in 33 patients in the acAN group, 20 patients in the recAN group and 33 controls. Plasma leptin served as an indicator of malnutrition.
The HISPAMEC Registry is a multicenter international study group dedicated to collecting data on patients diagnosed with SAD with serological evidence of chronic HCV infection. The information sources are cases reported by physicians of the HISPAMEC Study Group and periodic surveillance of reported cases by a Medline search updated up to December 31, 2007.
Patients with early RA who received adalimumab plus MTX (n = 240), adalimumab (n = 222), or MTX (n = 216) were grouped by American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response, 28-joint Disease Activity Score (DAS28), or remission-like state [tender joint count (TJC) = 0; DAS28 &lt; 2.6; swollen joint count = 0; ACR100] at 26 and 104 weeks. Radiographic progression was assessed by cumulative probability plots, mean changes in total Sharp score (DeltaTSS), and percentages of progressors (DeltaTSS &gt; 0.5).
This cross-sectional study was conducted in 122 patients with RA. Lipid profiles of patients were compared with a control group, consisting of a population-based study cohort (DRECE study), matched for sex, age, menopausal status, and body mass index. Excess lipoprotein(a) was defined by a serum concentration &gt; 0.3 g/l.
Eleven patients eligible for a knee arthroscopy were studied. Acoustic quantification was carried out by a digital image analysis program that detects the time-dependent increase [intensity (time) = k x time + C] of gray-level intensity in all the pixels of a specific region of interest (ROI) following intravenous injection of the microbubble contrast agent sulfur hexafluoride. Echo-guided synovial biopsies were carried out in the same ROI. Synovial vessel areas were quantified after Factor VIII immunostaining of synovial biopsies using an automated digital image analysis.
Databases of 1892 patients of 7 rheumatologists in Jyväskylä, Finland, and 478 of one author in Nashville, TN, USA, seen in usual care, were reviewed for the first recorded ESR and CRP, and all RF tests.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of both knees was conducted in 92 male floor layers and 49 male graphic designers (referents), with a mean age of 55.6 years (range 42-70 yrs). The presence of grade 3 MRI signal intensities indicating degenerative tears of the anterior, middle, and posterior one-third of the lateral and medial menisci was assessed on 1.5-Tesla MRI scans. The odds ratio (OR) of meniscal tears was determined among floor layers compared to graphic designers. Using logistic regression, models were adjusted for age, body mass index, and knee-straining sports.
In an observational cohort study from a single academic center, NP events and their attribution were identified at enrollment and at annual assessments for up to 7 years. NP events were characterized using the American College of Rheumatology case definitions; other variables were global SLE disease activity and cumulative organ damage. The outcomes of NP events were recorded and self-report HRQOL was measured with the mental (MCS) and physical (PCS) component summary scores of the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36.
The implementation package was developed to address specific barriers towards prescription of COBRA therapy and comprised informational handouts (an information booklet and leaflet for patients), preprinted prescription orders, and background information on COBRA therapy for the rheumatologists. Twenty-two rheumatologists agreed to participate, including the arthritis nurse where available. Rheumatologists, nurses, and patients were asked to record their experience. All Dutch arthritis nurses were invited to an educational session on COBRA therapy.
Eighty-seven consecutive patients with SSc were included and prospectively investigated; they underwent 6MWT in addition to conventional assessment of possible lung, heart, kidney, skin, and muscle involvement, and disease activity scoring, severity, and quality of life determination.
A retrospective analysis of medical records from 9 Italian rheumatologic referral centers was carried out. All patients with SRC and an available serum sample at the time of crisis were included. Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) by indirect immunofluorescence, anti-topoisomerase (topo) I by enzyme-linked assay (ELISA), anti-RNA polymerases (RNAP) by ELISA for the subunit III, and immunoprecipitation (IP) were performed.
The screening strategy included tuberculosis skin test (TST), QuantiFERON-TB Gold (QTG) test, standard chest radiograph, and contrast enhanced-computerized tomography of the chest (CT).
In a retrospective study, charts of patients with chronic form of primary (idiopathic) arthritis followed from our center since 1970 were reviewed and clinical/laboratory variables were collected for further analysis.
Patients with cSLE (n = 98) followed every 3 months completed HRQOL measures, the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory Generic Core scale (PedsQL-GC), the Rheumatology Module (PedsQL-RM), and the Child Health Questionnaire (CHQ). The British Isles Lupus Activity Group Index (BILAG) was used to measure organ-system-specific disease activity. Physicians rated the course of cSLE between visits.
We created a database of patients with RA, PsA, or AS treated with anti-TNF agents (etanercept, infliximab, or adalimumab) at a large outpatient rheumatology clinic. Patient characteristics, baseline HAQ prior to treatment, subsequent yearly HAQ, and reasons for termination were collected. The cost based on percentage of patients achieving &gt;or= 0.2 improvement in HAQ (minimal clinically important difference, MCID) was calculated using the 2008 direct cost (Cdn) of the medication.
From a joint replacement registry, 70 male and 70 female patients were randomly selected and matched for age, body mass index, comorbidity, procedure, and education. Patients completed the AHI prior to surgery. Functional status was assessed at baseline and 1-year followup with the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) score. Linear regression modeling was used to determine the effect of sex on predicting AHI scores. A second model was constructed to examine the effect of AHI on the 1-year WOMAC change score.
Sera from adults with active RA despite MTX therapy, who received subcutaneous injections of placebo + MTX (MTX alone, n = 34) or golimumab 50 or 100 mg every 2 or 4 weeks + MTX (n = 137), were analyzed for levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA), interleukin 18 (IL-18), E-selectin, matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1).
Four hundred ninety-eight men and 468 women aged 59-71 years were recruited. A lifestyle questionnaire was administered, and bone mineral content (BMC) and bone mineral density (BMD) were measured at the lumbar spine and femoral neck. Two hundred fifty-four men and 271 women had repeat bone densitometry 4 years later. DNA was obtained from whole blood samples using standard extraction techniques. Single nucleotide variants in the growth hormone releasing hormone gene (GHRH, G/A 223 Phe75Leu, rs4988492), growth hormone releasing hormone receptor gene (GHRHR, G/A 217, Ala57Thr, rs4988496), the growth hormone secretagogue receptor gene (GHSR, T/C, Gly57Gly, rs495225), and the growth hormone receptor gene (GHR, T/G, noncoding, rs2940944) were analyzed.
Patients with prior/current digital ulcers or never affected were identified in the cohort of SSc patients enrolled in the French ItinérAIR-Sclérodermie registry. Rodnan skin scores, pulmonary function test results, and clinical and immunological data were analyzed to identify digital ulcerassociated clinical features.
SSc patients at a large referral hospital self-reported on a number of comorbidities. Their inpatient and outpatient medical records were abstracted using a standardized data extraction form. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of the self-reported diagnoses were calculated using data from the chart review as gold standard.
A very early arthritis clinic (NOR-VEAC) was established as a multicenter study. General practitioners were asked to refer patients presenting with at least 1 swollen joint of maximum 16 weeks' duration. Clinical and laboratory markers were examined.
In 135 patients with suspected SS, the grades of 5 US measures of both parotid and submandibular salivary glands were scored (0-48 scale). Diagnosis of primary SS was established following the American-European Consensus Group criteria of 2002. The patients' total scintigraphic score (0-12 scale) was determined and the histopathological changes of minor salivary glands graded. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve was employed to evaluate the diagnostic value of the US scoring system.
Sixty-three patients with SSc fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology and/or Leroy and Medsger criteria were retrospectively studied, including 30 (47.6%) with limited cutaneous and 27 (42.9%) with diffuse cutaneous SSc. Forty-one patients underwent computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, 11 patients only CT scan, and the remaining 11 patients only MRI. Cerebral vasculopathy on MRI and CT scan was defined as absent or mild (score &lt; 1), moderate (1 &lt;or= score &lt; 2), or severe (score &gt;or= 2) on a 4-point scale (0 to 3).
The 813 patients in the ESPOIR cohort were screened for anti-HCV antibodies and HBs antigen.
HCRT scans prospectively performed before (n = 9 patients) and after (n = 47) AHSCT were blindly reviewed by 2 independent investigators using the Wells score.
A total of 210 patients diagnosed with biopsy-proven GCA and 678 matched controls were included in our study. DNA from patients and controls was obtained from peripheral blood. Samples were genotyped for the TLR4-(+896 A/G) (rs4986790) gene polymorphism by polymerase chain reaction, using a predesigned TaqMan allele discrimination assay.
We used data from a longitudinal sample of North Carolina tobacco farmers across 5 waves of data collection (1997-2005) (baseline N = 749 farmers). Generalized linear mixed models were used to examine changes in attitudes toward tobacco control and tobacco manufacturers, controlling for economic dependence on tobacco, and demographic factors.
In 2005, over 25,000 rural residents in 16 states completed the first-ever IPV module within the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). The BRFSS is a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention-sponsored annual random-digit-dialed telephone survey. The BRFSS provides surveillance of health behaviors and health risks among the non-institutionalized adult population of the United States and several US territories.
OHP claims data from 2002 to 2003 were used to assess quality of diabetic care for beneficiaries residing in urban areas or rural areas with or without at least 1 RHC. Study subjects included Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) or disabled beneficiaries, aged 18-64, who were enrolled in the OHP for 12 months per study year and had at least 1 claim with a diabetes diagnosis (n = 6,267). Diabetes-related primary care was measured by the proportion of patients receiving each of 3 recommended tests at least once during the calendar year: hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), lipid profile, and eye exam. Logistic regression models were used to identify differences in testing rates across the geographic areas, after controlling for individual differences including age, race, sex, and health status.
Claims data from 237,500 claimants in 2 large insurance companies in Washington state for calendar year 2002 were analyzed, using adjusted clinical group risk adjustment for differences in disease burden and rural urban commuting area codes for rurality definition.
Using 7 classification systems, we counted VA health care enrollees who lived in each category, and number admitted to VA hospitals or non-VA hospitals under Medicare. For dual VA-Medicare enrollees over age 65, we compared VA and private sector hospitalizations on numbers of admissions and bed-days of care. We compared VA enrollees' relative proportions across rural to urban categories for each classification system and evaluated discordance between systems at the veterans-integrated service networks (VISN) level.
Cross-sectional analysis of data from the 2004 National Nursing Assistant Survey (NNAS), a nationally representative survey of 3,017 CNAs; analysis was restricted to 2,897 currently working CNAs. Location was categorized as metropolitan, micropolitan, or neither (other rural county). Demographics included age, sex, race, education, income, and years at present job. Analyses were weighted to reflect the complex sampling design.
Open-ended interviews were conducted with 30 mothers of adolescent women in 3 rural counties in southern Oregon. Thematic analysis within and across interviews using constant comparative analysis was used to explore barriers, facilitators and strategies mothers identified in talking with their daughters about contraception.
A cross-sectional, descriptive survey design was used to collect primary data in 2005. The manager/owner listed for each of the 279 non-metropolitan community pharmacy sites in Wisconsin was surveyed using an 8-page instrument. The 7 drug therapy services that key informants were asked to report on included 6 disease state management (DSM) programs and medication therapy management services (MTMS). Descriptive statistics were calculated for variables describing the pharmacy sites and how DTS were provided. Logistic regression was performed, with any drug therapy service provision as the dependent variable and 8 independent variables.
Data were collected using a survey design. The questionnaire gathered demographic data, number and type(s) of certifications held, and comfort level with 7 emergency interventions. The sample was recruited from registered nurses (RNs) working in 10 Critical Access Hospitals that represented different geographic locations and different distances to larger, more comprehensive hospitals in an upper Midwestern state.
Surveys were mailed to health care professionals in the HPRN. Participating clinics (n = 21) distributed patient surveys on CRC screening to persons aged &gt; or =50 for a 2-week period in 2006.
Readmissions within 30 days of patients who were admitted to an inpatient psychiatric unit using a MIPA model of care (N = 147) were compared to readmissions of a comparison group of patients who were admitted prior to the adoption of the MIPA (N = 37). Case mix differences were adjusted using multiple logistic regression analysis (N = 184).
To control for accounting aberrations within a given year, we selected RRCs that reported 3 consecutive fiscal years of Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) cost report data, starting with fiscal year 2004 and ending with fiscal year 2006. Given a limited sample size of 28 for-profit RRCs and 127 non-profits, we used the non-parametric median test to assess median differences in operational and key financial measures between the 2 groups.
We performed a population-based cohort study of all residents 97 years and older in the Klamath Basin, a rural region in southern Oregon. The prevalence of disabling conditions was determined by in-person examination.
Ninety-three overweight or obese children (aged 8 to 14 years) and their parent(s) participated in this randomized controlled trial, which included a 4-month intervention and 6-month follow-up. Families were randomized to either a behavioral family-based intervention (n = 33), a behavioral parent-only intervention (n = 34), or a waitlist control condition (n = 26). Only program costs data for the parent-only and family-based programs are reported here (n = 67). Assessments were completed at baseline, post-treatment (month 4) and follow-up (month 10). The primary outcome measures were total program costs and cost per child for the parent-only and family interventions.
In a cohort of patients with infiltrating ductal carcinoma studied longitudinally since 1996 and until 2007, PAR1 over-expression was assessed by immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and flow citometry. Chi-square and log rank tests were used to determine whether there was a statistical association between PAR1 overexpression and metastases, mortality, and survival. Multivariate analysis was performed including HER1, stage, ER and nodes status to evaluate PAR1 as an independent prognostic factor.
We used FACS to analyze VLC in ovarian and non-ovarian tumors, and characterize the relationship of VLC and Tie2-monocytes. We performed qRT-PCR and FACS on human VLC to assess the expression of the CD52 antigen, the target of the immunotherapeutic Alemtuzumab. We assessed Alemtuzumab's ability to induce complement-mediated VLC killing in vitro and in human tumor ascites. Finally we assessed the impact of anti-CD52 immuno-toxin therapy on murine ovarian tumor growth.
One hundred and thirty-three diabetic cats 120 newly diagnosed and 13 previously treated.
Prospective, uncontrolled clinical trial. Cats were treated with PZIR twice daily for 45 days. Control of glycemia was assessed on days 7, 14, 30, and 45 by evaluation of change in water consumption, frequency of urination, appetite, and body weight, serum fructosamine concentration, and blood glucose concentrations determined 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 hours after administration of PZIR. Adjustments in dosage of PZIR were made as needed to control glycemia.
Client-owned nonazotemic geriatric (&gt;or=9 years) cats.
Prospective longitudinal cohort study monitoring a population of healthy nonazotemic geriatric cats every 6 months until development of azotemia, death, or the study end point (September 30, 2007). Multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to assess baseline clinical, biochemical, and urinalysis variables, urine protein to creatinine ratio (UP/C), urine albumin to creatinine (UA/C) ratio, and urinary NAG index as predictors of development of azotemia.
Nine healthy client-owned dogs.
Prospective study. Arthrocentesis was performed under sedation on 4 joints (both carpi, 1 tarsus, 1 stifle) on each dog every 3 weeks, a total of 4 times. Automated cell counts were done on stifle fluid, smears were made, and differential cell counts done on smears from all joints. Slides were evaluated microscopically for erythrocyte numbers, total nucleated cell count, differential cell count, and cell morphology. Data were analyzed by 2-way analysis of variance.
Seven dogs with 1 or more gastrointestinal masses composed primarily of eosinophilic infiltrates for which no underlying cause was found.
Retrospective case series.
Three affected BSH, NWF, Siberians, Sphynx, 2 MC (without the known MC mutation), and 2 Domestic Shorthair cats (controls) were studied.
Prospective, observational study. Exonic and splice site regions of the genes encoding the proteins cardiac troponin I, troponin T, MYBPC3, cardiac essential myosin light chain, cardiac regulatory myosin light chain, alpha tropomyosin, actin, and beta-myosin heavy chain were sequenced. Sequences were compared for nucleotide changes between affected cats, the published DNA sequences, and control cats. Changes were considered to be causative for HCM if they involved a conserved amino acid and changed the amino acid to a different polarity, acid-base status, or structure.
Fifteen dogs with clinical signs consistent with hypothyroidism and abnormal stimulation results with 75 microg rhTSH and 18 clinically healthy dogs.
All dogs were stimulated with 75 and 150 microg rhTSH IV in a 1st and 2nd stimulation test, respectively. Blood samples were taken before and 6 hours after rhTSH administration for determination of total T4 concentration.
Twenty client-owned dogs with SRMA presented to the University of Glasgow Small Animal Hospital between May 2006 and May 2008.
A prospective, observational study: CBC, biochemistry, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses were performed. C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid-A, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, and haptoglobin (Hp) were assessed in the serum. IgA concentrations were determined in the serum and CSF.
Five Standard Poodles with histologically confirmed polymicrogyria.
Retrospective case series. Cases were obtained by personal communication with 1 of 2 authors (TJVW, DPO).
Two hundred and twenty-one colic horses and 15 control horses.
Prospective observational clinical study. Blood and peritoneal fluid were collected on admission. Horses were grouped according to diagnosis, peritoneal fluid analysis, and outcome. Peritoneal D-dimer concentration was determined, together with peritoneal tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) activities. Plasma D-dimer concentration also was measured.
Six healthy adult alpacas.
After food was withheld for 8 hours, alpacas were given, on subsequent days in a randomly determined order, either 0.2 microg/kg of exenatide or similar volume of isotonic saline SC. Blood samples were collected before and 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 105, and 120 minutes after treatment. A rapid dextrose (0.5 g/kg) injection was given after the time 60 samples. Plasma glucose and insulin concentrations were measured at each time point.
The percentages and numbers of Tregs and nonregulatory T cells and B cells were assessed in 34 dogs with cancer and 9 age-matched control dogs. Dogs evaluated included 14 dogs with sarcoma, 7 dogs with carcinoma, 7 dogs with lymphoma, and 6 dogs with mast cell tumor.
Numbers and percentages of Tregs, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells and B cells were determined using flow cytometry and compared between control dogs and dogs with cancer.
Client-owned 15 healthy control dogs and 23 small breed dogs with CMVI classified by severity, based on the classification system determined by the international small animal cardiac heart council.
Prospective, controlled, observational study. The expression levels of SRCR genes (SERCA2alpha, PLN, and HAX-1) were evaluated in peripheral blood of dogs at different stages of CMVI via real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
Fourteen hypothyroid dogs without abnormalities on renal ultrasound examination or urinalysis.
Blood pressure and GFR (measured by exogenous creatinine clearance) were measured before treatment (T0, n=14) and at 1 month (T1, n=14) and at 6 months (T6, n=11) after beginning levothyroxine supplementation therapy (20 microg/kg/d, PO). The response to therapy was monitored at T1 by measuring serum total thyroxine and thyroid stimulating hormone concentrations. If needed, levothyroxine dosage was adjusted and reassessed after 1 month. Statistical analysis was performed using a general linear model. Results are expressed as mean+/-standard deviation.
Seventy-seven clinically diseased cattle and 19 healthy control cattle.
Serum cTnI concentrations were measured using an Immunlite Troponin I immunometric chemiluminescent assay in consecutive cases of postmortem-confirmed pericarditis (n=18), endocarditis (n=15), chronic suppurative pneumonia (n=13), congenital heart disease (n=10), reticulitis (n=3), mediastinal abscess (n=7), thymic lymphoma (n=6), and caudal vena cava thrombosis (n=5). Serum cTnI concentrations were measured in 19 healthy cattle.
One hundred and nine dogs with hyperadrenocorticism were included: 91 with ADHAC and 18 with AIHAC.
Retrospective study. Dogs displaying feedback inhibition after the dexamethasone suppression test, adrenal symmetry, or both were considered to have ADHAC. AIHAC was demonstrated by adrenal tumor histology. For each group, ACTH determination by ILMA was reviewed.
In a double-blind cross-over study, 16 dogs received each diet for 4 weeks. Dogs in group T first received the test diet and then the control diet, whereas dogs in group C were fed the diets in the opposite order. Different variables (body weight, body condition score, HE score, fecal score, CBC, plasma tests of liver function including NH3, and coagulation tests) were measured at the start of the study and after completion of each diet.
Data were collected from the medical records of 4 horses presented to Washington State University as well as the 23 previously published case reports of horses with renal carcinoma.
Retrospective study.
Healthy dogs (n=15).
Interventional, experimental study. A restraint device was built to facilitate imaging of dogs in sternal recumbency. Each dog underwent videofluoroscopy during swallowing of liquid barium and barium-soaked kibble in sternal and lateral recumbency. Timing of swallowing, pharyngeal constriction ratio, esophageal transit time, and number of esophageal peristaltic waves were compared among body positions.
Seventy-two hospitalized foals and 23 healthy age-matched foals.
Basal ACTH and cortisol concentrations were measured and a paired low-dose (10 microg)/high-dose (100 microg) cosyntropin stimulation test was performed at admission in hospitalized foals. HPA axis dysfunction was defined as (1) an inappropriately low basal cortisol concentration or (2) an inadequate increase in cortisol concentration (delta cortisol) after administration of cosyntropin, with cut-off values for appropriate basal and delta cortisol concentrations determined from results obtained in healthy age-matched foals.
Five healthy Beagle dogs weighing 9.8-12.8 kg (3 males and 2 females; aged 2 years) were used.
A radiotelemetry system for continuous measurement of LAP was used in this study. Rupture of the chordae tendineae was experimentally induced via left atriotomy, and a transmitter catheter was inserted into the left atrium. The body of the transmitter was implanted SC. After clinical condition was stabilized, the severity of MR was evaluated by echocardiography, and LAP was recorded for 72 consecutive hours for the analysis of diurnal variation.
Three Standardbreds, 3 Thoroughbreds; age 8-14 years; body weight 517-606 kg.
Observational study. Repeated 2-dimensional echocardiographic examinations were performed in unsedated horses by 2 observers and subsequently analyzed by 2DST. Test reliability was determined for segmental and for averaged 2DST indices (including strain, strain rate, displacement, and rotation) by estimating measurement variability, within-day interobserver variability, between-day interobserver variability, and between-day intraobserver variability. Variability was expressed as coefficient of variation (percent) and the absolute value below which the difference between 2 measurements will lie with 95% probability.
Three mature, privately owned, affected siblings and their progeny produced in 2 litters.
Prospective, observational study. Two test matings of 1 affected sire with 2 of his affected sisters were used to determine the inheritance pattern. Affection status was determined by measuring venous blood ammonia concentrations, detection of the shunt by ultrasonography and confirmation during surgical attenuation of the intrahepatic shunting vessel.
We first carried out a genome-wide association (n = 17,967) and replication study (n = 13,615) to identify genetic loci associated with plasma CRP concentrations. Data collection took place between 1989 and 2008 and genotyping between 2003 and 2008. We carried out a mendelian randomization study of the most closely associated single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the CRP locus and published data on other CRP variants involving a total of 28,112 cases and 100,823 controls, to investigate the association of CRP variants with coronary heart disease. We compared our finding with that predicted from meta-analysis of observational studies of CRP levels and risk of coronary heart disease. For the other loci associated with CRP levels, we selected the most closely associated SNP for testing against coronary heart disease among 14,365 cases and 32,069 controls.
Risk of coronary heart disease.
Cohort study of 5067 participants (mean age, 58 years; 60% women) without cardiovascular disease from Malmö, Sweden, who attended a baseline examination between 1991 and 1994. Participants underwent measurement of C-reactive protein (CRP), cystatin C, lipoprotein-associated phospholipase 2, midregional proadrenomedullin (MR-proADM), midregional proatrial natriuretic peptide, and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (N-BNP) and underwent follow-up until 2006 using the Swedish national hospital discharge and cause-of-death registers and the Stroke in Malmö register for first cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke, coronary death).
Incident cardiovascular and coronary events.
Retrospective cohort study of 328,468 patients undergoing spinal fusion procedures from 2002-2006 identified from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample database, a 20% sample of US community hospitals.
The rates of use of BMP among patients undergoing spinal fusion procedures are examined along with complications, length of stay, and hospital charges associated with use of this fusion adjunct.
The participants were 44 outpatients receiving hemodialysis at Hospital B. The QOL was surveyed using a self-administered questionnaire, the Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form. The following patient attributes and laboratory values were taken from the medical records: age; sex; primary disease; number of years on hemodialysis; complications; number of hours of hemodialysis per session; percentage weight gain; cardiothoracic ratio; blood pressure; hematocrit; and the serum levels of albumin, potassium, phosphorus, and calcium.
A randomized controlled trial design was used. Fifty comatose head injury patients were randomly allocated into a control group or an intervention group. The consciousness level of the patients in both groups was evaluated and recorded by the Glasgow Coma Scale, before and 30 min after the visiting program.
One-hundred-and-sixty-nine women who visited the health center of a city in Aomori Prefecture, Japan, at 4 months after childbirth for regular examination fulfilled the selection criteria and completed self-reporting questionnaires on postnatal depression using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) and a life and social events scale.
We randomly assigned seven institutions into an experimental group (four institutions, n = 96) and a control group (three institutions, n = 44) using cluster randomization. The women in the experimental group were asked to continue stress management homework for 3 months. A nurse provided feedback on the homework every month. Those in the control group were given only the booklet. The primary outcomes were the risk ratios of "depression" and "anxiety" according to the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. The secondary outcomes were "health status" from the Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form 36-item Health Survey (SF-36) v2 and "satisfaction" from the Visual Analogue Scale. We excluded 15 women who became pregnant and performed an intention-to-treat analysis of 125 women.
A randomized controlled trial was carried out on outpatients with type 2 diabetes from two hospitals who met the criteria and gave consent to participate. They were randomly divided into an intervention group that followed the program and a control group that followed usual clinical practise. The intervention group received &lt;30 min of monthly interviews based on the program's textbook and biweekly telephone calls from a nurse educator throughout the 12 months.
Twenty-eight eyes from 14 patients with preoperative dry eye (dry eye group) and 70 eyes from 35 patients without preoperative dry eye (non-dry eye group) were studied prospectively. In each group, we measured values such as tear break-up time (tBUT), Schirmer I test (ST-I), tear meniscus height (TMH), and subjective dry eye symptoms (Sx), and evaluated the postoperative changes in these values. We also evaluated the influence of corneal incision location and shape on these values. The correlations between these values and microscopic light exposure time and phacoemulsification energy were investigated.
Twenty-eight eyes in 14 patients with VKH disease were reviewed retrospectively. These 28 eyes were divided into 19 eyes with intraretinal fluid (C group) and 9 eyes without intraretinal fluid (N group). Changes in visual acuity and fluid accumulation observed using OCT were compared between the two groups.
In a retrospective study, 44 eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema were treated with an intravitreal injection of 4 mg (n=12 eyes), 8 mg (n=17) or 25 mg (n=15) of triamcinolone acetonide (TA). Optical coherence tomography, best-corrected logMAR visual acuity and Goldmann tonometry were performed at baseline, 1 week, and 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after treatment. Mean follow-up was 9.8 months (standard deviation=2.3) with a range of 5-12 months.
This retrospective non-comparative study investigated the outcomes of AGV implantation with silicone tube ligation and removable external stents in 95 eyes (90 patients) with at least 12 months of postoperative follow-up. Qualified success was defined as an intraocular pressure (IOP) of &lt;or=21 mmHg and &gt;or=6 mmHg regardless of anti-glaucoma medication. Those who required additional glaucoma surgery, implant removal or who had phthisis bulbi were considered failures. Hypotony was defined as an IOP of &lt;6 mmHg.
The rectus muscles of 37 subjects were analyzed. Distal myotendinous specimens were obtained from 3 normal subjects, 20 patients with acquired strabismus, 11 with infantile strabismus, and from 3 with congenital nystagmus, and were studied by using light microscopy. Some specimens (6 rectus muscles) were also examined by transmission electron microscopy.
We analyzed vascular malformations of head and neck regions in 21 patients with the use of three-phase CT, including pre-contrast phase, vascular phase (scan delay: 20-35 seconds after intravenous contrast material injection) and equilibrium phase (scan delay: 3-5 minutes) imaging. The flow characteristic of each lesion was determined and categorized as either a high- or a low-flow lesion according to findings on selective arteriography and/or direct puncture venography. The CT number was acquired from two areas in a vascular lesion, sorted by the enhancement pattern: area 1, a highly enhanced area seen on the vascular phase; area 2, a delayedly enhanced area seen on the equilibrium phase. The CT numbers of each phase were compared between high- and low-flow lesions with use of the unpaired t-test. The flow patterns of high- and low-flow lesions were analyzed by assessment of time-density curves of three phase CT.
This study included 32 AVMs from 32 patients who had been treated with radiosurgery (males/females: 21/11; average patient age, 33.1 years). The time interval between radiosurgery and MRA was an average of 35.3 months (range, 12-88 months). Three-dimensional TOF-MRA was obtained at a magnetic field strength of 3.0 Tesla after infusion of contrast media, with a measured voxel size of 0.40 x 0.80 x 1.4 (0.45) mm(3) and a reconstructed voxel size of 0.27 x 0.27 x 0.70 (0.05) mm(3) after zero-filling. X-ray angiography was performed as the reference of standard within six months after MRA (an average of two months). To determine the presence of a residual AVM, the source images of 3D TOF-MRA were independently reviewed, focusing on the presence of abnormally hyperintense fine tangled or tubular structures with continuity as seen on consecutive slices by two observers blinded to the X-ray angiography results.
One hundred and ten patients (76 patients with CAC) were scanned twice on prospective ECG-triggered scans. The scan parameters included 120 kV, 82 mAs, a 2.5 mm thickness, and an acquisition center at 45% of the RR interval. The interscan and interobserver variability on the CAC scores (Agatston, volume, and mass) was calculated. The factors affecting the variability were determined by plotting it against heart rate, BMI, and noise level (defined as the standard deviation: SD).
One hundred and nine patients with suspected coronary disease were divided into 2 groups according to a mean heart rate (&lt; 70 bpm and &gt;or= 70 bpm) and into 3 groups according to the mean Agatston calcium scores (&lt;or= 100, 101-400, and &gt; 400). Next, the effect of heart rate and calcification on the accuracy of coronary artery stenosis detection was analyzed by using an invasive coronary angiography as a reference standard. Coronary segments of less than 1.5 mm in diameter in an American Heart Association (AHA) 15-segment model were independently assessed.
From January 2000 to December 2004, 46 of 193 patients with an IA underwent transperineal US prior to corrective surgery. Sonographic findings were reviewed to identify the presence of internal fistulas and to determine "distal rectal pouch to perineum (P-P)" distances. IA types were determined based on the sonographic findings, and the diagnostic accuracy of transperineal US was evaluated based on surgical findings.
Between August 2000 and April 2008, five patients diagnosed with arterial esophageal bleeding by conventional angiography, CT-angiography or endoscopy, underwent a TAE with NBCA. We mixed NBCA with iodized oil at ratios of 1:1 to 1:4 to supply radiopacity and achieve a proper polymerization time. After embolization, we evaluated the angiographic and clinical success, recurrent bleeding, and procedure-related complications.
We retrospectively assessed 45 patients with 46 HCCs (mean size, 2.2 cm) adjacent to the gallbladder (&lt;or=1.0 cm) treated with RF ablation using an internally cooled electrode system. An electrode was inserted into the tumor either parallel (n = 38) or perpendicular (n = 8) to the gallbladder wall. The safety and therapeutic efficacy of the procedures were assessed with clinical and imaging follow-up examinations. Follow-up with the use of CT ranged from four to 45 months (mean, 19 months). The association between variables (electrode direction, electrode type, tumor size, tumor location, lobar location) and the presence of a residual tumor or local tumor progression was also analyzed.
Cyst ablation using a mixture of NBCA and iodized oil was performed in 99 cysts from 21 patients who had such symptoms as abdominal distension and pain. The collapse or reaccumulation of the ablated cysts after the procedure was assessed during the follow-up period of 36 to 90 months. The treatment effects, including symptom relief, and the clinical data such as the blood pressure and serum creatinine levels were also assessed, together with the complications.
From 2001 to 2008, 143 consecutive patients who underwent an angiography for acute arterial upper or lower GI bleeding were examined.
We retrospectively evaluated all of the consecutive patients who underwent an angiography for treatment of acute LGI bleeding between January 2003 and October 2007. In total, the study included 36 patients who underwent a colonoscopy and were diagnosed to have an active bleeding in the LGI tracts. Based on the visualization or non-visualization of the bleeding focus, determined by an angiography, the patients were classified into two groups. The clinical outcomes included technical success, clinical success (no rebleeding within 30 days), delayed rebleeding (&gt; 30 days), as well as the major and minor complication rates.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all adult patients who were admitted to the intensive care unit at Columbia University Medical Center and had an ethics consultation between August 1, 2006, and July 31, 2007. All mandatory and nonmandatory ethics consultations were reviewed. Patient diagnosis, prognosis, presence of do-not-resuscitate order, presence of written advance directives, reason for the ethics consultation, and survival data were collected. The number of ethics consultations hospital-wide from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2007, was collected.
Between March 16 and August 31, 2007, a survey that described 10 hypothetical patients was completed by physicians and nurses attending a conference on PAH. Results were subsequently validated with physicians and nurses who were contacted online through the Pulmonary Hypertension Association. Respondents were asked to assign each patient's functional class as they would normally in clinical practice.
Human hepatoma SMMC-7721 cells were irradiated with a carbon ion beam and X-ray. Cell survival was determined by a standard colony-forming assay. STAT-3 protein expression was analysed by Western Immunoblots. Cell cycle and apoptosis were performed by flow cytometry.
Rats were subjected to MI by LAD ligation in situ. Some animals were pre-treated with the stable adenosine analogue 2-chloro-adenosine (CADO). After 24 h, pro- and anti-apoptotic signals (protein kinase C isoforms, p38, g proteins, Bcl-2/Bax ratio, Akt, Bad), and marker of apoptosis execution (caspase-3, TUNEL) were quantified in the remote myocardium.
We evaluated LMO2 expression in cultured cells, bulk tissues, and microdissected cells from pancreatic cancers by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry.
The brains of male hsp 70.1 knockout and littermate mice were obtained after GA injection into the lateral ventricle. The mice were killed 6 hours later to investigate the levels of hsp 70.1 and hsp 70.3 using semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reactions.
Transient middle cerebral artery ischemia was induced in adult Wistar rats (n=13) using the monofilament method. In the experimental group (n=8), animals were harvested at days 3, 7, 10, 17 and 21 after ischemia. Five animals served as controls. Sagittal sections through the ischemic cortex were double-stained for neural (nestin and beta-tubulin, nestin and PCNA), glial (nestin and GFAP) and oligodendroglial (nestin and O4, CNP and PCNA) precursors. Double-stained cells were also counted under high-power view and tabulated over time.
PC12 cells were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)/F12 medium. RNA was isolated and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was run to quantify messenger RNA (mRNA) change. Western blots were used to assess IL-7 protein change in the medium. Extracellular free Ca(2+) was removed by using Ca(2+)-free DMEM/F12 with 1 mM ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid for 45 minutes before the start of hypoxia.
ESR was measured for 10 days in 46 patients (19 women and 27 men; mean age: 49.7 years; range: 13-70 years) who underwent elective craniotomy for tumor microsurgery (70-425 minutes with a mean of 230 minutes) under general anaesthesia. Blood samples were taken on the day before surgery and on each consecutive day after surgery for 10 days. The standard method of measuring ESR was based on the technique first described by Westergren.
Neural precursors isolated from rat embryonic mesencephalon (E13.5d) were transfected with vectors containing Nurr1 or Ret and treated with 9-cis-retinoic acid (RA) and/or GDNF for 3 days. RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry was used to test the expression of Nurr1 and Ret and the TH positive cells.
Single-voxel H-MRS was performed in a series of patients with different pathologies on a 1.5 T clinical scanner. Four areas of the brain were explored with the point resolved spectroscopy technique acquisition mode; the echo time was 35 milliseconds and the repetition time was 2000 milliseconds. We enrolled 15 patients for every area, and the intra-individual variations of metabolites were studied in two consecutive scans without removing the patient from the scanner. Curve fitting and analysis of metabolites were made with the software of GE and the LCModel. Spectra non-fulfilling the minimum criteria of quality in relation to linewidths and signal/noise ratio were rejected.
Patients presented with progressive mandibular swelling, pain, soft-tissues discoloration and dental misalignment with tooth loosening.
The AVMs were completely and persistently occluded by endovascular transarterial and transvenous approaches.
In this work, we present data of 207 CD patients treated with BoNT-A for 6.7 +/- 3.5 years. One hundred and sixty-three patients were treated with Dysport (mean dose, 389 +/- 144 U) and 44 with Botox (mean dose, 145 +/- 44 U).
Intracarotid injection of 1 x 10(7) C6 glioma cells in Wistar rats was performed to establish a primary diffuse leptomeningeal gliomatosis model. Ki-67 and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) immunohistochemistry staining were used to study the biological behavior of the developed tumor. Methodology, physical findings and histopathological features were also discussed.
Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) retrograde tract tracing was performed.
In neonate rats, the lower trunk of the left BP was cut. This nerve trunk was repaired either immediately [immediately-reconstructed group of rats (IR), or 30 days after, tardy reconstructed group of rats (TR)]; in the third group of animals, the nerve was not repaired (noreconstructed group of rats, NoR). In each group of animals, functional studies were performed at 90 days of age using the grooming test and the walking tracks analysis. Histologic studies of the C7-T1 spinal cord and lower trunk of BP were performed at 30 and 90 days of age; the numbers of motoneuron and axon were counted.
Between 1991 and 2002, 463 patients with an intracranial meningioma were operated in the Department of Neurosurgery, University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany. We compared the outcome of these patients after operation and the different methods of radiation therapy and chemotherapy with the data from Buhl (1994), who analysed 661 patients with intracranial meningioma who were operated on in the Department of Neurosurgery, University of Essen, Essen, Germany, between 1968 and 1988, to find out whether better methods of diagnosis like magnetic resonance imaging scans, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, post-operative radiation therapy and chemotherapy have an influence on the recurrence and outcome after surgical treatment.
Fifty-three New Zealand white rabbits were allocated into three groups randomly. SAH was induced by injecting autologous blood into the cisterna magna. The treatment groups were as follows: (1) sham operated (no SAH (n=18); (2) SAH only (n=17); (3) SAH + TPM (n=18). Hippocampal sections were evaluated for neural tissue degeneration, using the previously described neural degeneration scoring system. The ApopTag peroxidase in situ apoptosis detection kit (Serologicals Corp., former Intergen) was used to assess apoptosis in the hippocampal sections and the effect of TPM on the apoptotic response. Basilar artery lumen areas and arterial wall thickness were also measured in all groups.
Twenty-nine second and third year nursing students participated in a series of interviews over a two year period. Six students, representing a cross-section of a student cohort form the basis of this case study. Interviews were transcribed verbatim and thematically coded.
This was a mixed methods study. Students (n=971) from three Australian universities were surveyed using an instrument designed specifically for the study, and 24 students participated in focus groups.
Two hundred and twenty seven first and final year nursing students at a university and 191 first and final year nursing students at a Technological Education Institute completed a questionnaire, including demographic questions, the Kogan's Old People Scale and the Palmore's Facts on Aging Quiz I.
A total of 11 DVD simulations were developed by Monash University academics. Second year students (N=191) from the Bachelor of Nursing course at Monash University, viewed a range of DVDs. Students' perceptions and attitudes about the clinical relevance of the simulations were assessed by having them complete a 7-point Likert self-report scale. Qualitative data was also collected from two focus groups (N=7).
Ten healthy subjects took part in a blinded crossover trial. Blood glucose level and gastric emptying rate (GER) were determined after the ingestion of 150 g white wheat bread or 150 g whole-meal rye bread on two different occasions after fasting overnight. The GER was measured using real-time ultrasonography, and was calculated as the percentage change in antral cross-sectional area 15 and 90 minutes after completing the meal.
For this purpose, 200 days old male 6 lean and 6 obese rats of both strains were taken. Fatty acid composition was analyzed in plasma, various tissues such as liver, white adipose tissues (retroperitoneal, epididymal, omental, and subcutaneous) and brown adipose tissue.
GBS was grown in Todd Hewitt-yeast extract medium and human AF. Bacteria were collected at mid-logarithmic, late-logarithmic and stationary growth phase. We performed global expression microarray analysis using a custom-made Affymetrix GeneChip. The normalized hybridization values derived from three biological replicates at each growth point were obtained. AF/THY transcript ratios representing greater than a 2-fold change and P-value exceeding 0.05 were considered to be statistically significant.
We carried out electrophysiological recordings in the rat in vitro hippocampal slice preparation, focusing mainly on pharmacologically isolated GABA(A)-receptor-mediated synaptic currents.
A cross-sectional study in which a survey was conducted of parents/caregivers and/or patients aged 0-18 years registered at a large pediatric emergency department in Canada. A total of 1804 families underwent a face-to-face interview. The main outcome measure was the rate of potential vitamin interactions in the preceding 3 months.
Academic level 1 trauma center.
We performed a prospective review of our trauma registry for all cases of LECS over a 7 year period (2/98-10/2005). Variables reviewed included demographics, injury patterns, tissue necrosis, amputation and mortality.
Three children with SPT were admitted to two hospitals in Paris, France, between February 2000 and December 2006. Diagnosis or treatment was carried out using laparoscopic techniques (biopsy and resection in one case and biopsy only in two). Long-term follow-up data were collected.
Data were collected prospectively from 44 epidural anaesthetics in 40 infants (18 premature or former premature) weighing 1,400-4,300 g who underwent major abdominal surgery (33 cases), thoracic surgery (5), or both (1), or ano-rectal surgery (5) at our centre.
Between 1996 and 2003, 137 patients (age between 6 weeks and 16 years) with unilateral ureteropelvic junction obstruction and no associated urological pathologies underwent Anderson-Hynes dismembered pyeloplasty. A total of 112 patients were evaluated with complete data. One of the following criteria was considered to be indication for surgery in children with grade 4 hydronephrosis: differential renal function (DRF) &lt;40%; clinical symptoms such as pyolenephritis and flank pain; during follow-up renographies, a reduction of DRF &gt;10% and washout patterns II or III b according to O'Reilly. We looked at the age during surgery and the kind of presentation. DRF was measured using diuretic renography preoperatively and 1 year postoperatively. A postoperative change in DRF of group A (children without CV, n = 84) was compared to that in group B (children with CV, n = 28).
After IRB approval (#105825), charts of patients identified by ICD-9 code as having colonic atresia, who were admitted to our institution between 1993 and 2008 were, retrospectively, reviewed. Particular attention was paid to demographic data, comorbidities, operative therapy, and complications. Continuous variables were compared using an unpaired t test. A P value of &lt;0.05 was considered significant.
From 2000 to 2007, four children (3 males and 1 female) referred to our hospital for respiratory symptoms secondary to RTF. Diagnosis of RTF was made by bronchoscopy and esophagogram with contrast medium. Operative repair involved resection of the fistula, suture of trachea and esophagus followed by interposition of large vascularized pleural flap (PF).
The Israel Trauma Registry was searched for patients &lt;18 years who were treated for non-penetrating liver or spleen injuries from 1998 to 2004. Patients were grouped by period, 1998-2000 and 2001-2004, and compared for type of injury, severity of injury, type of treatment, and inpatient mortality.
Port placement used by Farhat in retroperitoneal-assisted laparoscopic pyeloplasty was modified for better cosmetic results. Surgery was done using 2-cm incision for 5-mm camera port and two 3-mm working ports. Dissection was done anterior to the kidney. The ureteropelvic junction was brought out through the 2-cm trocar site and the pyeloplasty was performed extracorporeally. Between January 2004 and February 2008, a total of 39 kidneys in 38 children with mean age of 4.1 months underwent LARP. The operative time, hospital stay, functional outcome and follow-up renogram studies were reviewed.
Medical records of 13 children were reviewed retrospectively. Each patient (pt) was evaluated with voiding cysto-urethrogram (VCUG) and renal ultrasonography. Pts older than 5 years performed an uroflowmetry. Serum creatine was determined in all children.
We retrospectively studied eight children admitted to our center with a diagnosis of diaphragmatic injury following trauma during a period of 5 years (2003-2008). Relevant information regarding the mode and pattern of injuries were noted in all cases. Type of injury and surgical intervention and outcome of patients were evaluated.
All CVCs inserted in children with cancer at our Institution from October 2005 to January 2007 were prospectively monitored for device-related mechanical and infectious complications. The Sri Paran fixation technique was used in all cases. The complication rate per 1,000 days was calculated as 1,000 times the number of complications divided by the total number of catheter days.
Three longitudinal strips of colon were harvested from the mesenteric, anti-mesenteric and intermediate part in the whole length of resected colon of six patients with HSCR. Each strip was divided into two parts. One of the contiguous strips was assessed with HE and Hematoxylin-Phloxin-Safran, and the other one with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry. We analyzed the distribution of ganglion cells and nerve arrangement along the strips with both techniques and compared the results obtained in the three different regions of the bowel.
A total of 30 pregnant rabbits received fetal surgery on gestational day 23. A left diaphragmatic hernia was created in one end fetus (DH group) of each rabbit, and the other end fetus of the same rabbit received sham thoracotomy as control (CR group). Another 19 pregnant rabbits underwent partial resection of the diaphragm in both end fetuses on gestational day 23, and then artificial gastroschisis was performed on one end fetus (GS group) on gestational day 26, while the other end remained as control (CGS group). The fetuses were harvested on gestational day 30. The histological and morphometric evaluation of lungs and livers of the end fetuses in each group was conducted.
Twenty-eight women and men participated in a detailed narrative investigation of reflective writing of the lived experience of hearing voices through a voice simulation experience.
The case notes of 7,921 inpatients were scrutinized to identify patients who fell while in the hospital.
The data were collected by focus group (N= 4) interviews and analyzed with inductive content analysis.
The design of the study was exploratory descriptive research. The study employed a survey method using Bowers and Allan's (2006) Attitude to Personality Disorder Questionnaire, which was designed to identify global attitudes toward those with a diagnosis of personality disorder.
The sample consisted of 177 women (60 cases of depression and 117 noncases). The SCID-IV was used as the gold standard.
This investigation was a single-session, mixed repeated-measures pilot study.
Twenty participants (10 with hemiplegia and 10 without neurologic involvement) reached forward with each arm against equivalent elastic, viscous, and mass loads. Normalized shoulder and elbow electromyography impulses were analyzed to determine agonist muscle recruitment and agonist-antagonist muscle co-contraction.
This was a prospective cohort study of 33 adults with lower-extremity motor impairment following unilateral, noncerebellar stroke. Participants were tested one time per month from 1 to 6 months poststroke.
This study was a multicenter randomized clinical trial.
The study was conducted in orthopedic physical therapy clinics.
Patients diagnosed with cervical radiculopathy (N=81) were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups: a group that received manual therapy, exercise, and intermittent cervical traction (MTEXTraction group) and a group that received manual therapy, exercise, and sham intermittent cervical traction (MTEX group).
Patients were treated, on average, 2 times per week for an average of 4.2 weeks.
Outcome measurements were collected at baseline and at 2 weeks and 4 weeks using the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS), the Patient-Specific Functional Scale (PSFS), and the Neck Disability Index (NDI).
. Two individuals who required botulinum toxin treatment for poststroke spasticity were assessed over a course of 20 weeks with both clinical (Modified Ashworth Scale) and neurophysiological (surface electromyography recording of levels of muscle activity) measures of spasticity. Additionally, arm function, arm movement, and pain were measured. The individuals' responses to treatment with botulinum toxin and overall recovery after stroke are described.
The study was designed as a randomized clinical trial.
The study was conducted in a university hospital.
Seventy patients with SAIS were randomly assigned to a HILT group or a US therapy group.
Study participants received 10 treatment sessions of HILT or US therapy over a period of 2 consecutive weeks.
Outcome measures were the Constant-Murley Scale (CMS), a visual analog scale (VAS), and the Simple Shoulder Test (SST).
A cross-sectional design was used for this study.
Twenty children who had spina bifida and were ambulatory participated. The (.)Vo(2)peak was measured during a graded treadmill exercise test. The validity of (.)Vo(2)peak measurements was evaluated by use of previously described guidelines for maximum exercise testing in children who are healthy, as well as differences between Vo(2)peak and (.)Vo(2) during a supramaximal protocol ((.)Vo(2)supramaximal).
A series of experiments were conducted with a transcutaneous focused ultrasound device (UltraShape Contour I; UltraShape Inc., Yoqneam, Israel): (1) three-dimensional acoustic field distribution was measured by hydrophone in a water bath; (2) the real-time two-dimensional acoustic field was assessed using optical visualization by a Schlieren system; (3) three-dimensional and Schlieren results were compared in tissue-mimicking gel phantoms and in frozen specimens of porcine subcutaneous fat; and (4) a porcine in vivo preclinical model was used to test safety, selectivity, and efficacy by histological staining of excised skin and subcutaneous fat specimens.
The authors surveyed a cross-section of University of Michigan women who underwent postmastectomy breast reconstruction (response rate, 73 percent) between 1988 and 2006 [110 expander/implant and 109 transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous (TRAM) reconstructions]. Each group was stratified into three postreconstructive periods: short term (&lt;or=5 years), intermediate (6 to 8 years), and long term (&gt;8 years). Validated satisfaction items were scored on a 5-point Likert scale; scores were dichotomized into positive and negative responses. Logistic regression assessed satisfaction by procedure, while controlling for sociodemographic and clinical variables.
The authors retrospectively reviewed the charts and mammograms of patients (n = 17; average follow-up, 6.3 years) who underwent the oncoplastic reduction technique before 2004. Mammography sensitivity was determined by measuring breast density, qualitative changes, and time until mammographic stabilization was determined. These data were compared with those of a control group from the same time period who underwent breast conservation therapy alone (n = 17; average follow-up, 5.9 years).
A total of 11 lower abdominal flaps were obtained from nine cadavers and two abdominoplasty procedures. The authors simulated the perfusion of seven pedicled TRAMs, eight full TRAMs, eight muscle-sparing TRAMs, 14 DIEPs, and six superficial inferior epigastric artery flaps. For each simulated flap, the named artery/perforator was injected with Omnipaque contrast using a Harvard precision pump at 0.5 ml/minute, and the flap was subjected to dynamic computed tomographic scanning using a GE Lightspeed 16-slice scanner. Scans were repeated at 0.125-ml increments (every 15 seconds) for the first 1 ml, then at 0.5-ml increments (every 60 seconds) for the next 2 to 3 ml, thus giving progressive computed tomographic images over time. Images were viewed using both General Electrics and TeraRecon systems, allowing analysis of branching patterns and perfusion flow as well as measurements of vascular territory.
Adipose-derived stromal cells were harvested from lipoaspiration specimens of patients undergoing elective suction-assisted lipoaspiration and third-generation ultrasound-assisted lipoaspiration. Harvested cells were seeded to evaluate proliferative capacity and in vitro osteogenic potential. Alkaline phosphatase and alizarin red staining were performed to evaluate early and terminal osteogenic differentiation, respectively. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis was used to examine osteogenic gene expression patterns of RUNX2/CFBA1 (early differentiation) and osteocalcin (late differentiation).
The authors' method of fat harvesting and refinement has been described previously. The authors injected nude and tie2/lacZ mice with 2 ml of human lipoaspirate placed on the dorsal surface in a multipass, fan-like pattern. Fatty tissue was injected in small volumes of approximately 1/30 ml per withdrawal. The dorsal skin and associated fat was excised at various time points. Sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin and cytochrome c oxidase IV. Transgenic tie2/lacZ samples were stained with X-galactosidase. At the 8-week time point, volumetric analysis was performed.
Eight smooth-surfaced tissue expanders were implanted into eight African green monkeys. In four experimental animals, a sheet of AlloDerm was draped over the tissue expander so as to cover the implant. Four control animals underwent placement of a tissue expander only. Animals were killed after 10 weeks and specimens underwent histologic and immunohistochemical analysis.
A computer-controlled device was used to stretch murine skin. C57Bl6 mice (n = 26) were assigned to a cyclical square-wave tensile stimulation for 4 hours or continuous stimulation for 4 hours. Stretched skin was analyzed for expression of the neuropeptides, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, their receptors (NK1R and calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor component protein), and growth factors (nerve growth factor, transforming growth factor beta1, vascular endothelial growth factor, and epidermal growth factor) using immunohistochemistry and real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.
A pedicled supraclavicular artery flap was used to reconstruct head/neck oncologic defects. Complications and functional outcomes were assessed.
From April of 1999 to April of 2006, 33 patients with unilateral established facial paralysis underwent single-stage facial reanimation via latissimus dorsi free flap transplantation. Time from the onset of paralysis ranged from 20 months to 64 years (mean, 11.6 years). Patients were followed postoperatively for at least 24 months. Results were studied and compared using Terzis and Noah's 1997 classification.
Liposuction, fat injection, or a combination of both was performed on 30 patients between 1994 and 2006 at Roberto del Rio Hospital or Clinica Alemana, Santiago, Chile. Liposuction was indicated in patients with excessive amounts of fatty tissue or tumor-like swelling. Combined liposuction and lipoinjection was performed on patients with deficit and excess in soft tissues. Lipoinjection was used for patients with soft-tissue insufficiencies. Samples of fat obtained by liposuction were submitted to histopathologic examination. Traditional tumescent technique was used for liposuction. The supernatant obtained by simple filtration was used for fat injection. Short- and long-term postoperative follow-up included registration of complications and assessment of aesthetic and functional outcome. The kappa test was used for statistical analysis.
The records of 160 consecutive hemipelvectomy patients from the authors' institution were reviewed to identify the incidence of soft-tissue coverage problems and approaches to their management.
This is a prospective, randomized, controlled study. Patients undergoing bilateral breast reconstruction with tissue expanders had one incision randomized to dermal closure with absorbable dermal staples. The contralateral side was closed with dermal sutures. During the expansion period, wounds were assessed by a blinded plastic surgeon using the 13-point Vancouver Scar Scale. At the time of implant exchange, both scars were excised and examined for histologic signs of inflammation.
This retrospective review analyzed 973 patients who had undergone anterolateral thigh flap reconstruction for various soft-tissue defects over the past 10 years. Various types of complicated defects in 36 patients were reconstructed with a composite anterolateral thigh flap combined with vascularized fascia lata. The fascia lata component of the flap was used for abdominal wall and fascial defect reconstruction in 12 patients, for lip-cheek defect reconstruction in 15 patients, for reconstruction of composite defects in extremities in nine patients, and for reconstruction of the perineum in one patient. Functional outcomes of donor sites were investigated by using a dynamometer.
The anatomical study was performed on 23 fixed and injected cadavers. The perforators of the tensor fasciae latae were identified and classified as septocutaneous or musculocutaneous. Diameter, location, and numbers were measured and the perforators were dissected up to their origin. The injection study was performed on 10 fresh cadavers. On one side, the ascending branch of the lateral circumflex femoral artery was injected with methylene blue; on the other side, the septocutaneous perforators were injected selectively. The size, location, and borders of the stained skin were measured.
A retrospective study focused on patient outcomes was performed on 19 patients diagnosed with Raynaud's phenomenon. Patients suffered from chronic ischemic hand pain. All patients had vascular studies to rule out occlusive disease. Fifty to 100 units of Botox were injected into the palm around each involved neurovascular bundle. Preinjection and postinjection laser Doppler scanning was performed on most patients to measure blood flow.
Eighteen adult patients with zone 2 flexor tendon injuries (34 digits) were studied prospectively for up to 3 years. Tendons were repaired using the modified Kessler technique and marked with stainless steel wire. Botulinum toxin was injected into the appropriate proximal flexor muscle belly under localizing electromyographic control. A matched cohort consisted of 53 patients (104 digits).
The long-term outcomes of 14 patients treated for this condition were evaluated. Comparisons of late postoperative to preoperative and early postoperative measurements were performed for digital brachial index. Subjective symptoms and function impairment were compared for preoperative and postoperative states using validated questionnaires. Comparisons were also made based on ulnar artery patency versus occlusion at late postoperative measurement.
A retrospective study evaluated the complication rate using the Harmonic blade in face and neck lifting (n = 420) between 2001 and 2007. A prospective study was conducted on 100 cases (October of 2006 to May of 2008) to evaluate the mean operative time, drainage, and recovery time. Results at day 8 were evaluated using on a scale of 1 to 4 (1 = nil tracking to 4 = marked tracking).
All selected patients had undergone a surgical procedure within 6 to 24 months before survey and had a scar(s) that caused concern. Participants completed a previously validated Self Completion Form that aimed to investigate their concerns. Clinicians were surveyed via telephone interviews using a similar format of questionnaire but with questions tailored to clinicians.
The authors dissected a total of 10 cadaver specimens. Dissection of the upper and lower lips and chin was performed. Latex injection of the arterial circuit aided the identification of boundaries. Histologic examination was performed on full-thickness specimens using hematoxylin and eosin stains.
The authors reviewed as best as possible all fractional lasers currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for distribution into the United States. Laser wavelength, means of delivery, depth of penetration, and special features were collated.
A comprehensive literature review and assessment was undertaken by two independent reviewers. Articles were selected using specific inclusion criteria. Split-thickness skin graft donor-site dressings were classified as either moist or nonmoist based on the state of the dressing upon initial application. Methodological quality of randomized controlled trials was assessed using the Jadad scale.
: A MEDLINE search was performed to obtain all relevant citations.
An extensive literature review was performed for the classification of vascular anomalies. Emphasis was placed on the epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of hemangiomas, including the authors' preferred algorithm.
The literature was reviewed and interjected into the authors' 20 years of experience in the use of lasers in the pediatric population.
: The purpose of this review article is to highlight the interdependence between the acute and reconstructive needs of pediatric burn patients as it pertains to each anatomical site. Relevant principles of acute pediatric burn care and burn reconstruction are outlined, based on the authors' experience and review of the literature.
Worcestershire dentists with NHS contracts were invited to take part in this audit. Each dentist audited a random selection of 30 of their dental clinical records against a common framework comprising eight domains. Record-keeping, and the presence or absence of key diagnostic and treatment planning details were recorded. Grading was applied in four categories, in which grades 1 and 2 were good (1) and adequate (2), captured on data-collection sheets and centrally analysed for frequency of each grade.
A convenience sample of people using the services of a healthy living centre for the homeless was surveyed using a questionnaire and the short-form OHIP-14.
A questionnaire that determined distribution and prevalence of orofacial injuries sustained when playing cricket was distributed to all players (n=411) who played cricket in four private schools in England and four private schools in Australia. There was a 100% response rate.
A total of 606 questionnaires, which had previously been piloted, were distributed to VDPs across England and Wales at the end of the vocational training (VT) year in 2007. The questionnaires contained a range of questions about VDPs' attitudes and fears, the influence that they perceived the new dental contract for the General Dental Services of the NHS had on their VT training experience, and their expectations for the future.
Two denture liners, one resin based (Trusoft, Bosworth, Illinois, USA) and one silicone based (Ufi Gel P, Voco GMBH, Cuxhaven, Germany), were tested in this study for both hardness (using the Shore A scale) and colour change (using the CIE L*a*b* colour scale), initially and after 1008 hours (6 weeks) of accelerated ageing. Statistical analysis was performed using the unpaired t-test with the Welch correction.
Efficacy was assessed at baseline and weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 using CGI-S, CGI-I, BPRS and SANS. Side effects were evaluated through SAS, BAS and AIMS. Multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) was used to test possible influences of single SNPs on clinical and safety scores. Tests for associations using multi-marker haplotypes were performed using the statistics environment "R".
The SOHO study is a 3-year, prospective, observational study of 10,972 outpatients with schizophrenia across 10 European countries. The cost of resource use (inpatient stay, day care, psychiatrist visits and medication) for those who ever relapsed in three years was compared to those who never relapsed. One-year costs for both groups were also compared for a more stringent comparison. The analyses were adjusted for patient characteristics and took account of non-normality of the cost data by using a log-link function. UK unit costs were applied to resource use. The analysis was repeated after multiple imputation for missing data.
Using rs2234693, we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (197 methamphetamine induced psychosis patients and 197 healthy controls). The age and sex of the control subjects did not differ from those of the methamphetamine induced psychosis patients.
Using three tagging SNPs in GRM2 and an SNP (rs6465084) reported functional variant in GRM3, we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (325 MDD patients, 155 BP patients and 802 controls) in the Japanese population. In addition, we performed an association analysis of GRM2 and GRM3 and the efficacy of fluvoxamine treatment in 117 Japanese patients with MDD. The MDD patients in this study had scores of 12 or higher on the 17 items of the Structured Interview Guide for Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (SIGH-D). We defined a clinical response as a decrease of more than 50% in baseline SIGH-D within 8 weeks, and clinical remission as an SIGH-D score of less than 7 at 8 weeks.
Volumes of hippocampus and amygdala were manually measured using magnetic resonance imaging obtained from 27 patients with panic disorder and 30 healthy comparison subjects. In addition the amygdala was focused on, applying small volume correction to optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM). State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the NEO Personality Inventory Revised were also used to evaluate anxiety.
A total of 57 subjects who were outpatients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder as defined by DSM-IV, were enrolled in the study. The SRDL scale was assessed with four other scales: the World Health Organization Quality Of Life (WHO-QOL)-26, the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for health state, the Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Symptoms Scale (DIEPSS) and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS).
This cross-sectional study involved 200 volunteers, aged 18-99 years, 118 women and 82 men. The instruments were the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the Morningness/Eveningness Questionnaire, the Self-Reporting Questionnaire-20, and the future self-perception questionnaire.
The BCIS-J was completed by university students (n = 183) and patients with schizophrenia (n = 30). The Japanese version of the Schedule for the Assessment of Insight was used to measure clinical insight in patients with schizophrenia, and its association with the BCIS-J was investigated.
Ninety-one stroke patients were divided into PSD (n = 46) and post-stroke (without depression) groups (n = 45). PSD must have occurred 2-4 weeks after the onset of the stroke and was determined by the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD). In addition, the subjects were divided into anterior (n = 67) and posterior circulation stroke groups (n = 24) based on the location of the focus as determined by computed tomography. All recruited patients were graded by the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS).
Thirty-nine female patients (n = 17 in pre-menopause; n = 22 in post-menopause) with major depressive disorder based on Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th edition) criteria and who were euthyroid and not on hormonal replacement therapy, participated in a prospective, 6-week, open-label naturalistic study. The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale-17 item, the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, the Clinical Global Impression scale and the Cognitive Failure Questionnaire were administered at baseline, week 1, week 3, and week 6. Levels of thyroid stimulating hormone, total thyroxine and total triiodothyronine were collected at baseline visit.
The CDS was translated from English into Japanese and then back-translated into English by a native English-speaking American. After making the J-CDS, we examined its reliability and validity. Questionnaires that were composed of J-CDS, the Dissociative Experience Scale (DES), the Zung self-rating scale and the Maudsley Obsessional-Compulsive Inventory were administrated to 59 participants (12 patients with depersonalization disorder, 11 individuals who had recovered from depersonalization and 36 healthy controls).
Sixty-six schizophrenia patients were enrolled in the trial. The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total, positive, negative and general symptoms scores and Drug-Induced Extra-Pyramidal Symptoms Scale (DIEPSS) scores were investigated at 0, 4, 8 and 12 weeks.
This was a cross-sectional study performed all over Tokyo during the 2-month period from April to May 2007. The total number of patients who require admission due to both somatic and psychiatric diseases was investigated with their demographic and clinical characteristics.
Eighteen boys with combined type ADHD, 10 boys with PDD with hyperactivity, and 18 control boys wore actigraphs for 1 week while attending elementary school. In addition to the average activity level, the standard deviation in the activity levels were compared for two continuous situations: (i) in-seat classes, in which the participants were expected to sit in their own seats and learn quietly; and (ii) free recess periods following the in-seat classes.
A survey regarding such judgments on discharge was conducted involving 549 inpatients with schizophrenia with a hospital stay of &gt; or =1 year. Relationships between psychiatrist judgments on discharge and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Scales for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), Global Assessment Scale (GAS), patient attitude to discharge, and other variables were investigated. A similar analysis was conducted regarding patient attitudes toward discharge.
Short-echo single-voxel (1)H-MRS was done for the left DLPFC in 17 female drug-free MDD patients (mean age +/- SD, 30.9 +/- 6.9 years) and 13 matched control subjects (mean age +/- SD, 29.1 +/- 6.2 years) and was repeated at 8 weeks following antidepressant treatment.
A total of 8941 adolescents were recruited and completed the questionnaires. Multi-dimensional discriminative factors for Internet addiction were examined using chi-squared automatic interaction detection for gender and sex.
A total of 155 patients who met the Japanese case definition of chronic fatigue syndrome were enrolled in this study. Comorbid psychiatric disorders were diagnosed according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 4th edition criteria. Patients with comorbid psychiatric disorders received psychiatric treatment in addition to medical therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome. Seventy patients participated in a follow-up interview approximately 24 months later.
First, we investigated whether neuropsychiatric symptoms at baseline predict changes in the QOL of AD patients over time. Then we examined the associations between changes in neuropsychiatric symptoms and changes in QOL. QOL was assessed using the Japanese version of the Quality of Life-Alzheimer Disease (QOL-AD) scale and other clinical instruments [the Mini-Mental State Examination, The Neuropsychiatry Inventory (NPI)] at baseline and again two years later in 96 AD patients among 140 AD patients at baseline. We performed a multiple regression analysis of the baseline QOL-AD score, NPI score (mood, psychosis, and euphoria factor), Mini-Mental State Examination score, and other clinical instrument variables (e.g. Activities-of-Daily-Living scores) to determine their contribution to the change in QOL-AD score.
We conducted polysomnography for patients who satisfied the following criteria: (i) diagnosis of major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder according to the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI); (ii) a score of &gt; or =10 on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D); (iii) fulfillment of either (a) or (b) below: (a) at least one of the following: severe snoring, witnessed apnea during sleep, excessive daytime sleepiness; (b) at least one of the following plus an oxygen desaturation index of 4% &gt; or =5 times/h by pulse oximeter: mild snoring, sleep disturbance, headache, high blood pressure. The patients with apnea hypopnea index &gt; or =5 were diagnosed with OSAS.
The present study evaluated the cognitive performance of patients (n = 96) diagnosed with a major depressive episode in relation to the presence of medical and/or psychiatric comorbidity. Participants were assessed clinically and cognitively using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview and Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status. Four groups of comorbidity were categorized: (i) no comorbidity, (ii) medical comorbidity; (iii) psychiatric comorbidity; and (iv) both medical and psychiatric comorbidity, and subsequently analyzed for differences across six cognitive domains: immediate memory, visuospatial, language, attention, delayed memory, and total score.
A 4-year cross-sectional survey was carried out using the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database from 2000 to 2003.
A total of 1938 students in grades 5-12 in Yokohama, Japan, were enrolled, and they completed anonymous self-report questionnaires including a question about intentional self-harm with a sharp object, the Depression Self-Rating Scale for Children (DSRSC) and the Adolescent Dissociative Experiences Scale (A-DES).
The single nucleotide polymorphisms rs16147 of the NPY gene (-485C&gt;T) and rs7687423 of the NPY receptor Y1 (NPY1R) gene were analyzed in 222 patients with methamphetamine dependence and psychosis and 288 age- and gender-matched controls.
Patients underwent elective cardiac surgery with a standardized intraoperative anesthesia protocol, followed by random assignment to one of three postoperative sedation protocols: dexmedetomidine, propofol, or midazolam.
The authors performed a retrospective electronic chart review of 252 patients who fell during their hospital stay. Falls were categorized by their severity (i.e., minor, moderate, and major). Demographic information, patient outcomes, and diagnostic criteria for delirium (per DSM-IV) were collected on the day of admission, the day of the fall, and the 2 days preceding the patient's fall.
Of 247 randomized patients, the authors identified 100 patients with a high level of case complexity at baseline and without major depression (65 rheumatology and 35 diabetes patients). Patients were randomized to usual care (N=53) or to a nurse-led intervention (N=47). Main outcomes were the incidence of major depression and severity of depressive symptoms during a 1-year follow-up, based on quarterly assessments with standardized psychiatric interviews.
In this prospective cohort study, inpatients age 65 and older were assessed every 48 hours with the Confusion Assessment Method.
Authors provide a structured review of outpatient and inpatient charts of FTD patients.
Using latent class analysis, they identified four classes of psychomotor-severity subtypes of delirium: 1) hypoactive/mild; 2) hypoactive/severe; 3) mixed, with hyperactive features/severe; and 4) normal/mild.
A factor analysis of the DRS-R-98 was performed among 161 medical-surgical patients.
A group of 30 parents completed a free-response format survey when their child presented to the hospital; 19 of this cohort completed a 1-year follow-up.
Self-reported pain, depressive symptoms, other mental-disorder symptoms, functional status, interpersonal distress, and abuse were assessed in 1,647 gynecology patients by use of the Patient Health Questionnaire and the Medical Outcomes Study (SF-20).
A group of 66 women with MRKH were compared with 31 control-group women on a range of self-rating scales assessing psychological distress and self-esteem.
The authors present a case of paradoxical vocal cord dysfunction.
The authors describe a case of recurrent delirium/mania with prominent catatonic features after a cerebellar and pontine stroke, and subsequent successful treatment with lorazepam.
The authors report on a 60-year-old man with a history of depression and posttraumatic stress disorder who was brought to the emergency department with acute confusion, grimacing, stereotypy, refusal of food and water, muscle rigidity, mutism, and extreme negativism. He had recently and abruptly discontinued all psychotropic medication.
The patient presented with irritable mood and grandiose delusions 72 hours after starting valacyclovir for genital herpes. Valacyclovir treatment was stopped, and risperidone was initiated.
Here, the authors report on a 32-year-old woman with hemorrhages resulting from severe drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia after 4 weeks of citalopram therapy.
Structured telephone interviews were conducted with 43,099 participants as part of the REasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke (REGARDS) study. Participants completed the 12-item short form health survey (SF-12) and brief measures of depressive symptoms, social contacts, and caregiving strain.
Data were collected in the self-administered mail-out questionnaire and face-to-face interviews of the MEPS (n = 20,661). Internal consistency and test-retest reliability and construct, discriminate, predictive and concurrent validity were tested. The EQ-5D, perceived health and mental health questions were used to test construct and discriminate validity. Self-reported work, physical and cognitive limits tested predictive validity and number of chronic conditions assessed concurrent validity.
Consecutive CHF outpatients (n = 276) filled out the Short Form-12 (health status) and Health Complaints Scale (disease-specific complaints) at inclusion and 12-month follow-up, and the DS14 (Type D personality) and positive affect (Global Mood Scale) at inclusion. Three groups were composed: non-Type D patients without anhedonia, non-Type D patients with anhedonia, and Type D patients.
Representative survey of the German population conducted 2006 with 5,036 participants (53.6% female). Mean age was 48.4 years (SD = 18.0). Measurements included domain-specific life satisfaction (FLZ(M)), anxiety (GAD-7), depressive symptoms (PHQ-2), and sociodemographic variables (e.g., marital status, income, employment, education, urbanity, part of Germany, religiousness, age and gender).
Cross sectional comparison of SF-36 subscore profiles of cohorts of: (1) people with rheumatoid arthritis attending specialist Rheumatology outpatient clinics in five London hospitals (n = 446), and (2) people with schizophrenia treated by community psychiatric teams in four sites in Europe (n = 409).
Linking of the SS-QOL concepts with the ICF categories was carried out by two independently trained health care professionals who applied the standardized eight linking rules that were specifically developed and updated for this purpose. The degree of agreement between the health care professionals was determined by kappa coefficients.
This was a secondary analysis of health outcome data collected in an internet survey as part of the PROMIS Wave 1 field testing. For this study, we included the 10 global items and the physical function, fatigue, pain impact, anxiety, and depression item banks. Linear regression analyses were used to predict EQ-5D index scores based on the global items and selected domain banks.
A cross sectional, comparative design was chosen, and the samples comprised 196 NET patients and 5,258 individuals from the general Norwegian population. We used Chi-square cross tab calculations to evaluate sociodemographic characteristics, T-tests for independent samples and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) in order to compare HRQoL (SF-36) scores across a range of background variables. Furthermore, T-tests were used to analyze differences in HRQoL scores between the samples.
A forced-choice domain-preference measure was developed to assess the importance of HRQOL domains. About 194 cancer patients completed the domain-preference measure, along with measures of HRQOL, coping, adjustment, and life satisfaction.
Systematic literature review. Studies using the SEIQoL-DW were included if they were published in English and employed a quantitative design. A pre-defined checklist was used to analyse the reported results.
Participants were 145 outpatients with advanced cancer who were participating in a phase II trial of an outpatient palliative care intervention. Patients completed our modified FAMCARE measure of patient satisfaction and the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale, a measure of symptom burden. Individuals were also assessed for performance status using the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group scale. We conducted an exploratory factor analysis of the patient satisfaction measure and performed correlations of satisfaction with symptom burden as well as with performance status.
Data were derived from the Second Dutch National Survey of General Practice. In total, SF-36 data were available for 409 Turkish, 377 Moroccan, and 9,628 Dutch respondents. Language subgroup analyses were performed for the Turkish (n = 162) and Moroccan-Arabic (n = 52) versions of the SF-36. Psychometric properties were evaluated by descriptive statistics, factor analysis, internal consistency estimates, known-group comparisons, and differential item function (DIF) analysis.
We analyzed data obtained from respondents with diabetes and/or hypertension who participated in a large epidemiological study of two culturally distinct American Indian tribes. Comparison data were provided by an age, gender, and tribe matched sample from the same study who did not report either condition.
Human peripheral blood neutrophils were obtained from healthy non-smokers and stimulated with TLR 7/8 agonist imidazoquinoline resiquimod (R848) in the presence or absence of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Neutrophilic responses including cytokine release, superoxide production and chemotaxis were examined, and the signal transduction was also analyzed.
The Italian version of PHLOC was administered to 470 mothers of birth to 3-year-old children.
Patients who had undergone a liver biopsy for the evaluation of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection were included in the study. Demographic characteristics and laboratory data were collected at the time of biopsy. The first hundred biopsy specimens that met the inclusion criteria were assessed for grades of steatosis (semiquantitatively), diameter of fat globules (by a morphometric method), necroinflammation, and fibrosis (semiquantitatively). Liver biopsies were processed for paraffin embedding, stained with hematoxylin and eosin, whereas Gomori's Reticulin stain was used for the evaluation of fibrosis.
This is a retrospective study of all children who had been admitted with a history of corrosive ingestion to Aseer Central Hospital over a period of five years period from 1990 to 1995. The records of 72 patients (38 males and 34 females) were reviewed. The data included age, sex, time lapse till admission, action taken by parents, presenting symptoms, general management given to the child, barium study, endoscopy, and the postcorrosive ingestion outcome of the child.
We studied 1873 patients with either gastric or colorectal cancer who were registered in one referral cancer registry center in Tehran, Iran. All patients were followed from their time of diagnosis until December 2006 (as failure time). Survival curves were calculated according to the Kaplan-Meier Method and compared by the Log-rank test. Multivariate analysis of prognostic factors was carried out using the Cox proportional hazard model.
From 1993 to 2003, 240 patients with stage I, II, or III esophageal carcinoma underwent esophagectomy at Razi Teaching Hospital located in the north of Iran. Of these, 192 patients filled out a questionnaire during a 2-year period (ranging from 12 to 48 months after surgical reconstruction). Among them, there were 134 men (69%) and 58 women (31%), and the mean age at the time of ER was 48 years (ranging from 22 to 75 years). Transhiatal esophagectomy, extended esophagectomy (three field operation), and Ivor-Lewis resection were done in 142 (73.95%), 30 (15.62%), and 20 patients (10.42%), respectively. Intestinal continuity after esophageal resection was established with stomach in 154 patients (80%), colon in 28 patients (14%), and small bowel in 10 patients (5.2%). Cervical anastomosis was established in 172 patients (89.6%), while intrathoracic anastomosis was performed in 20 patients (10.4%).
The +49 A/G dimorphism was analyzed in 119 patients with CD, 65 patients with UC, and 100 controls by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method.
A large sample of children was selected from the general population by multistage random probability sampling for the assessment of physical growth. A random subsample of children-newborns to 18 years old-was taken from this larger sample for this study. Liver size below the costal margin and liver span along the midclavicular line were determined by physicians. Data were analyzed using SPSS software and medians and standard deviations were calculated.
Twenty-five patients who were candidates for appendicectomy (emergency as well as elective) and willing for the laparoscopic procedure were selected for this study. Ports used were 10 mm at the umbilicus, 5 mm at the lower right iliac fossa, and 10 mm at the left iliac fossa. Extremely friable, ruptured, or turgid organs of diameters larger than 8 mm were excluded from the study. The mesoappendix was divided close to the appendix by diathermy. Fallope rings were applied to the appendiceal base using a special ring applicator, and the appendix was divided and extracted through the lumen of the applicator.
Three hundred and fourteen school students, 103 at the intermediate level (grades 7-9) aged 12-15 years and 211 at the secondary level (grades 10-12) aged 15-18 years were tested for H. pylori. Urea breath test (UBT) was used for this purpose. Children with chronic RAP were identified as per the Apley criteria.
Twelve male albino rats were divided into three groups (ml vegetable oil/day by oral gavages daily for 2 weeks and were used as control group. The rats of the second group received 5.4 mg amiodarone/100 gm rat dissolved in vegetable oil daily by oral gavages for 2 weeks. In the third group, the rats received 5.4 mg amiodarone and 5 mg vitamin-E/100 gram rat dissolved in 2 ml vegetable oil by oral gavages daily for 2 weeks. Two weeks after treatment, the rats were sacrificed and liver specimens were immediately taken and processed for transmission electron microscopic examinations.
The medical records of all patients with CD seen in the clinic in the period from January 1993 through December 2007 were reviewed. The demographic, clinical data and methods of diagnosis were retrieved.
A study was conducted on 110 patients who were operated for acute appendicitis to determine the role and predictive value of the total leucocyte count (TLC), C-reactive protein (CRP) and percentage of neutrophil count in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Preoperative TLC, CRP and percentage of neutrophil count were determined and were compared with the results of the histopathology of the removed appendix.
Forty-two cases of hepatobiliary ascariasis were studied over a period of 3 years. All the patients were adults aged between 20 and 50 years and all but two were admitted with acute upper abdominal pain.
We evaluated histopathological changes by the Sydney scoring system in gastric biopsies taken from 30 H. pylori-infected adults and studied the correlation of these changes with the virulence factors. The Mann-Whitney test was used for the comparison of histopathological data. The presence or absence of each pathological index was evaluated with respect to the possession of virulence factors by the infecting H. pylori strain using the chi(2) test.
At the end of the liver procedure, transcystic normal saline was injected under pressure with distal clamping. Leaking saline on the cut surface of the liver was sutured. The process was repeated till no leaking was observed. A suction drain was kept for any bile leak.
From a series of independent cross-sectional surveys, a study population of 2,831 men and 2,976 women was formed. Associations between lifestyle factors and waist and hip circumference were estimated. Partial regression coefficients for every level of the lifestyle factors were multiplied by the differences in the proportion of the population reporting the corresponding levels of the respective lifestyle factors in 1986 and 2004. The sum of the product terms for each item represents the respective estimated impact of change in waist and hip circumference.
A cross-sectional study conducted in Matlab, Bangladesh, included 457 randomly selected community-living elderly persons aged 60 years or more (60-92 years; 69 +/- 7 years). Mobility, activities of daily living (ADL), performance tests, handgrip strength, the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) and a structured questionnaire were used to assess physical function, nutritional status, socioeconomic status and health status, respectively. Descriptive and linear hierarchical regression analyses were applied.
A cohort of 9913 persons responded to an identical survey in 2000 and 2005. BMI change over the period was examined in relation to gender, age, educational level, physical activity, job strain, and baseline BMI.
Data were collected from 199 boys aged 13, randomly assigned to either an experimental or a control group. Frequency of out-of-school moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) was self-rated by pupils while cardiorespiratory fitness was measured using 20-meter Shuttle Run test (20SRT) from the battery of Eurofit. Sense of coherence was measured with a SOC-13 questionnaire. A three semesters (15 months) intervention into a physical education programme, based on the Hellison's Teaching Responsibility through Physical Activity (TRPA) model, was introduced in the experimental group.
Regression modelling was based on Time Trade-Off (TTO) data derived from computer-assisted interviews conducted with 1,332 respondents from the Danish general population. Using a split-sample technique, 46 health states were directly valued by the respondents. Five different model types were tested and compared on statistical and theoretical grounds. Eleven different specifications were then tested for the chosen model type to identify the most appropriate model that had high explanatory power and parameters that were both consistent (positively signed) and statistically significant.
Postal questionnaires were sent to parents of children aged 12-16 years in six Swedish municipalities. Seven hundred and ninety-five parents were included in the study. Seven sociodemographic factors and four questions identifying parental attitudes and behaviour were examined. Logistic regression was used to compute odds ratios and confidence intervals.
Tobacco use was explored in 834 men aged 30-75 years old who participated in a cross-sectional population survey in the municipality of Vara (participation rate was 81%). Self-reported questionnaires assessed the habits of smoking and snuff use. Anthropometric measures were obtained during a health examination.
The occurrence and intended use of ;;effectiveness'' were identified from all council and board meeting minutes (n = 190) of five Finnish university hospital districts in 2001 and 2006. Data were collected from the Internet pages of the hospital districts. For analysis, deductive content analysis combining qualitative and quantitative methodologies was used.
The study population consisted of a representative sample of 1,448 German and 484 Norwegian hospital doctors aged 33-65 years (n = 1,932), selected from nationwide postal surveys in 2006. The questionnaires contained items on subjective life satisfaction and the validated 10-item Job Satisfaction Scale. Each item was scored on a seven-point Likert scale from 1 (very dissatisfied) to 7 (very satisfied). A mean sum score was calculated, ranging from 1 to 7. Regression analyses and generalized-linear-model-estimated means controlled for age and gender with 95% confidence intervals were used for comparison.
The EQ-5D data from three population health surveys were pooled, thus providing EQ-5D profile data for 15,700 individuals aged 20-79 years. The Danish TTO scoring algorithm was used to weight each respondent's profile data to derive a single index score. Mean values were computed by gender and 10-year age groups, and educational groups.
Lung cancer mortality rates (LCMRs) and numbers of deaths among men and women age 45+ years in 25 EU countries in 2002 were obtained from the World Health Organization mortality database, and the number of lung cancer deaths expected in each country at the LCMR of Sweden was calculated. LCMRs for EU countries were obtained during the period 1950-2004, and per capita consumption of nicotine from cigarettes and snus was estimated for men in Sweden from 1931 to 2004.
Mortality statistics by sex and age from 1991 to 2006 were obtained from Statistics Norway. Mortality rates, including infant mortality rates, were compared across geographical locations. The data material was divided into within and outside the the geographical areas of the Sami Development Fund (SUF) and into coastal and inland residence. Differences in mortality rates were tested by chi-quadrate tests.
Population registers of the 1.8 million residents of Stockholm County were used to assess the employment consequences over five years of having a diagnosis of IHD (600 cases) requiring hospital admission in 1996. We calculated annual age-standardized employment rates and age-adjusted odds of leaving employment during 1997-2001 by social class for in-patients and the general population.
Review of the pertinent English language literature.
During an 18-month period, seven patients with Ck infection were identified at our center. All were treated in the transplant intensive care unit. Candida isolates were grown on Sabouraud agar, and chromosomal DNA was extracted; clonality was investigated using random amplified polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction with primers M13, OPA-18, and OPE-18.
Review of epidemiologic and clinical characteristics of SMG-related bacteremia.
With institutional approval, 170 Wister rats underwent standardized anesthesia and abdominal surgery. An Echerichia coli inoculum was added to the incision, and MPH, gelatin matrix, or no agent (control) was placed in the site. After 72 h, the animals were sacrificed, and colony-forming units (cfu)/g were counted in the harvested tissue.
Case report and review of the pertinent English-language literature.
A 69-year-old man with abdominal actinomycosis presented with an abdominal mass mimicking a malignant tumor two years after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Investigation revealed the likely source of infection to be bile spillage during surgery.
This prospective observational study compared the timing and incidence of ABT-associated postoperative infections (PIs) in 1,489 orthopedic or cardiac surgery patients at nine hospitals.
A review of the literature in English was undertaken, primarily using PUBMED, to identify the medical uses of silver before the clinical introduction of antibiotics in the 1940s.
Review of pertinent medical literature.
Case report and review of the pertinent English language literature.
A 50-year-old man with seronegative large-joint arthritis presented emergently with a one-day history of subjective fever and acute-onset abdominal pain in the setting of recently developed sulfasalazine-induced agranulocytosis. Abdominal examination revealed mild-to-moderate tenderness and rebound tenderness in the right lower quadrant. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen demonstrated findings consistent with acute appendicitis. The patient improved clinically with non-operative management including a broad-spectrum antibiotic, with normalization of the white blood cell count four days after initiation of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor therapy.
Review of pertinent English-language literature.
STAMPEDE is an open-label, 5-stage, 6-arm randomised controlled trial using MAMS methodology for men with prostate cancer. It is the first trial of this design to use multiple arms and stages synchronously.
A total of 600 subjects comprising 335 males and 265 females aged 8-60 years were used to assess the prevalence of agenesis of the PL in Yoruba tribe.
Retrospective review was performed of notes of all high myopes (axial length 26.0 mm or more) who underwent cataract extraction during the study period in one centre.
A 14-year retrospective review of all breast resection specimens was completed in the Antrim Area Hospital Cancer Unit. Clinical records of patients diagnosed with non-epithelial breast malignancies were then reviewed for data regarding patient demographics, clinical presentation, pre-operative investigations, operative findings and outcome. Pathology reports were examined carefully for tumour type, location and for evidence of lymphovascular spread. This data was compared with the available literature.
From 1996 to 2006, 219 consecutive patients underwent inguinal hernia repair - 92 using a standard Lichtenstein repair and 127 with a Kugel patch. Patient characteristics, length of postoperative hospital stay and complication rates were assessed by retrospective review of the notes. Recurrence and chronic groin pain were assessed by postal questionnaire (with a follow up by telephone interview for non-responders). Patients with symptoms or an apparent groin swelling were reassessed by one of the authors (BD).
A thirty-four year old female was referred to our Head and Neck clinic with a one-month history of left posterior triangle lymphadenopathy. She reported no other symptoms and haematological investigations were normal. She was "Red Flagged" as a possible lymphoma. Excision biopsy revealed extensive histiocytic necrotising lymphadenitis providing a diagnosis of Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease.
From January 2005 through September 2007, 217 patients underwent TTMB. The inclusion criteria included a persistently elevated PSA level and/or diagnosis of atypical small acinar proliferation or high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia on previous biopsy. The prostate gland was arbitrarily divided into 24 regions, and a median of 58 cores were obtained per patient. The patients were divided into 3 velocity cohorts according to the following changes in PSA level in the year before biopsy: &lt; or =0.0, 0.1-1.9, and &gt; or =2.0 ng/mL. The PSAV was evaluated as a predictor for prostate cancer diagnosis, Gleason score, tumor volume, and cancer location.
Adenoviral vector encoding the human survivin gene was generated. Human DCs from healthy donors were transduced with human survivin gene by infection with adenoviral vector encoding the human survivin gene using the centrifugal method. Survivin-specific CTLs were induced from autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells by DCs transduced with the survivin gene. The ability of CTLs to lyse cancer cell lines was assessed using the (51)Cr-release assay.
Testosterone (0.1-300 microM) was added cumulatively to organ baths after precontraction of isolated human corpus cavernosum strips (n = 5) with KCl (45 mM). Testosterone-induced responses were tested in the presence of nonselective, large, conductance Ca(2+)-activated and voltage-sensitive K(+) channel inhibitor tetraethylammonium (1 mM), adenosine triphosphate-sensitive K(+) channel inhibitor glibenclamide (10 microM), voltage-dependent inward rectifier K(+) channel inhibitor barium chloride (30 microM) and voltage-sensitive K(+) channel inhibitor 4-aminopyridine (1 mM).
Urine, vaginal, and urethral samples obtained from 153 women presenting with chronic voiding symptoms were tested for the presence of pathogens including U. urealyticum and M. hominis. Patients with positive cultures for Mycoplasma were treated with a single dose of 1 g azithromycin and followed up 1 month after therapy. Patients with persistent infection received 100 mg doxycycline orally, twice daily for 7 days, according to the results of the susceptibility test. The patients were asked to rate the severity of their symptoms at their initial visit and after treatment.
A retrospective evaluation of a prospectively maintained radical cystectomy database consisting of the data from 344 patients was performed. Cox regression analysis was done, and Kaplan-Meier tables were developed to evaluate the contribution of this finding to clinical outcomes.
A total of 355 patients with Stage 1 or 2 hypertension and LUTS (as defined by an International Prostate Symptom Score of &gt; or =10) were randomly assigned to receive 2 mg of terazosin (n = 117), 5 mg of Amlodipine (n = 119), or 5 mg of Amlodipine plus 2 mg of terazosin (n = 119) once daily for a total of 28 days. The primary outcomes were a reduction in the total and subscores of the International Prostate Symptom Score and blood pressure. Analyses were performed by intention to treat. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (No. NCT00693199).
The effects of gefitinib on the activation status of EGFR and kinases downstream in its signaling cascade were examined in three gefitinib-resistant RCC cell lines: SKRC-44, KU20-01, and 786-O. The changes in signaling cascades and cell survival that were induced by gefitinib in combination with either the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 or the knockdown of Akt expression by transient transfection with Akt small interfering RNA were examined in 786-O cells.
HCC strips were mounted in 10-mL organ baths containing Krebs solution and connected to force-displacement transducers. The changes in isometric force were recorded using the Powerlab 400 data acquisition system. Corporeal smooth muscle was precontracted submaximally with phenylephrine (10 micromol/L).
A survey-based study of personnel returning from deployment to Southwest Asia was performed. The demographics were compared between the personnel reporting a history of urolithiasis during or within the first 90 days of returning from deployment and the personnel without a history of reported urolithiasis.
We studied the archeologic and artistic evidence regarding human representations performed during the Upper Paleolithic period, 38,000 to 11,000 years BCE, in Europe, with a focus on genital male representations in portable and rock art.
Fifty TSW who were at least 6 months' posttransition were recruited in a University Hospital. Speculum examination and digital vaginal examination were performed by a gynecologist. Transvaginal ultrasound of the prostate was performed by a radiologist. The information gathered included: ease of insertion of the speculum, vaginal length, palpability of the prostate, vaginal mobility and presence of scar tissue, ease of introduction of the ultrasound probe, ability to visualize prostate and seminal vesicles, echogenicity of the peripheral zone and the central gland, presence of calcifications and delineation of prostatic capsule, attitude toward gynecologic examinations, and anticipated and experienced painfulness of the different examinations.
The patients who underwent CTURVP were divided into those receiving only room temperature irrigation solution (group 1, 75 patients) or warm irrigation solution with a system maintaining the temperature of the ventral penile skin at about 36 degrees C continuously (group 2, 78 patients). At follow-up, 1, 3, and 6 months later, the International Prostate Symptom Score and peak urine flow rate were evaluated.
We retrospectively examined the records of all infants hospitalized for UTI at our institution, a free-standing children's hospital in the United States, for a 10-year period. Race, sex, and subsequent urologic diagnosis (using codes from the 9(th) edition of the International Classification of Diseases [ICD-9] were tabulated. Individual charts were reviewed to confirm documentation and workup of UTI.
From October 2000 to December 2006, 1308 consecutive men underwent open radical retropubic prostatectomy by a single surgeon. Of these 1308 men, 331 (25.3%) met our criteria for having "extremely" low-risk disease as determined by the preoperative and pathologic factors, including a preoperative PSA level &lt;10 ng/mL, clinical Stage T1c or T2a, a Gleason score of &lt; or =6, an estimated cancer volume in the specimen of &lt;5%, and no evidence of positive surgical margins. This cohort was selected because any measurable PSA level would be highly suspicious for a benign origin. Undetectable PSA was defined as a PSA level of &lt; or =0.04 ng/mL. A measurable PSA level included values between 0.05 and 0.14 ng/mL on &gt; or =2 consecutive measurements 6 months apart. Biochemical recurrence was defined as 3 consecutively increasing PSA levels with a peak level of &gt; or =0.15 ng/mL.
The Food and Drug Administration's medical device complication database, Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience database (MAUDE), was evaluated for pure and hand-assisted laparoscopic donor nephrectomies from 1992 to 2007 with the broadest keywords possible. In an attempt to estimate the failure rates by device type, a "denominator of use" was calculated using Organ Procurement and Transplant Network data multiplied by previously published survey-determined usage rates.
We performed a retrospective analysis of 619 patients with first-time calcium stone formation (SF) with complete metabolic assessments, who had been diagnosed and treated from 1994 to 2007 at our institution. Patients with SF were categorized into 2 groups according to the date of initial diagnosis: group 1 (1994-1999, n = 353 [57.0%]) and group 2 (2000-2007, n = 266 [43%]).
The study examined inpatient admissions for pediatric urolithiasis in 2003, using the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project Kids' Inpatient Database. We used the International Classification of Disease, 9th edition, Clinical Modification codes, to identify patients with a principal diagnosis of renal (592.0) or ureteral (592.1) calculi. Sex prevalence was assessed, and the results were stratified by age group.
An avascular plane of tissue from coagulation necrosis was achieved with the Habib 4X radiofrequency ablation device and the Rita 1500X generator. Typically, we used a power setting of 50 W but have found settings as low as 25 W necessary to provide hemostasis for larger vessels. The tumor was then sharply excised with a negative margin using robotic scissors and electrocautery to facilitate tissue cutting. Retrograde injection of methylthioninium chloride and saline through an externalized ureteral catheter allowed for precise sutured closure of the collecting system. FloSeal and BioGlue were then applied, making surgical bolsters or parenchymal sutures unnecessary. Intraoperative histologic evaluation of the surgical margin and repeat resection of the tumor bed was possible because the renal hilum was not clamped, and no warm ischemia was used.
From 1990 to 2007, 225 patients with renal tumors and inferior vena cava thrombus underwent RNIVCT, including 135 patients who had undergone preoperative renal artery embolization and 90 patients who had not. The effect of embolization on perioperative morbidity and mortality, transfusion requirements, blood loss, and operative time was analyzed by comparing the 2 groups.
Our prospective study included 24 children &lt;14 years old with radiopaque renal stones &gt;25 mm treated by ESWL as first-line treatment using the electromagnetic Dornier DoLi S device. Pretreatment kidney, ureter, and bladder plain films and intravenous urography and post-treatment ultrasonography and kidney, ureter, and bladder plain films were used to monitor the clearance of fragments. Stone clearance was assessed at 1 and 3 months. A stone-free state was defined as no radiologic evidence of stone. Asymptomatic noninfectious and nonobstructive fragments &lt;3 mm were considered insignificant.
During September 2006, men younger than 75 years of age living in the Washington, DC area were invited to participate in the George Washington University Prostate Cancer Screening Program. The SHIM questionnaire was administered to all participants. Information regarding primary care physician use, phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor use, serum prostate-specific antigen levels, and digital rectal examination findings was also obtained. Those who registered SHIM scores of 17 or less or who were taking a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor were considered to have ED.
We performed a review of patients who had undergone transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP; n = 343), holmium laser resection of the prostate (HoLRP; n = 54), or open prostatectomy (OP; n = 68). The PSA and PSA velocity values were collected at regular intervals both pre- and postoperatively for all patients. Only patients with histologic BPH and those with incidental CaP who underwent a watchful waiting strategy were included.
Data were obtained from the 2006 U.S. National Health and Wellness Survey. Cases (those who reported experiencing a sudden overwhelming urge to urinate, a frequent urge to urinate, or urinating &gt;8 times/d) were matched 1:1 with controls (those not experiencing any symptoms) by age, race, sex, educational attainment, and comorbidity status. The outcome measures assessed included health resource use, work productivity loss/activity impairment, and health-related quality of life.
White men, aged 40-79 years, were randomly selected in 1990 and assessed for alpha-blocker use and LUTS severity. Sexual function was assessed using the Brief Male Sexual Function Inventory. Men who used alpha-blockers before any sexual dysfunction were considered "exposed." Hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals were estimated separately for each sexual function domain using Cox proportional hazard models.
We retrospectively identified patients undergoing attempted retrograde ureteral access after urinary diversion surgery. The demographic information, diversion type, indication for retrograde access, success or failure of access, and intra- and postoperative complications were recorded.
A total of 156 patients with lower urinary tract symptoms who had indications for open prostatectomy were enrolled in the study from September 2004 to January 2006. Of the patients, 78 underwent open prostatectomy with suturing at the prostatic vesical junction (group 1) and 78 were treated with urethral catheter traction to control bleeding (group 2). The duration of operation, duration of hospital stay, intraoperative blood loss, hemoglobin decrease, and weight of resected prostate were recorded in both groups. Three months later, we followed up patients with the International Prostate Symptom Score questionnaire, maximal flow rate measurement, and cystoscopic examination.
Our study included 120 patients who had attended our clinic and were diagnosed with idiopathic infertility according to medical history and physical and seminal examination findings, as initial evaluations. The patients were divided randomly into 2 groups. Those in the study group (60 men) were given NAC (600 mg/d orally) for 3 months; the control group (60 men) received a placebo. The oxidative status was determined by measuring the total antioxidant capacity, total peroxide and oxidative stress index in plasma samples. The sperm parameters were evaluated after NAC treatment and were compared with those in the control group.
Bilateral no-scalpel vasectomy was performed in 323 patients during 2007. Of the 323 patients, 65 received LIA, 29 received LIA + SCB, and 227 received anesthesia using the no-needle technique with the MadaJet device. The level of pain during anesthesia administration and the subsequent procedural pain was documented for each technique using a pain scale of 0-10.
A case-control study was conducted to test the association between metabolic syndrome features and prostate cancer among 637 patients and 244 controls, with African-American men constituting 43% of the study population.
A retrospective clinical record review was performed of 68 patients treated from March 1998 to July 2007. Group 1 (n = 45) had UGTB confirmed by microbiologic or histologic examination. Group 2 (n = 23) had a high suspicion of UGTB because of the clinical features, but no microbiologic or histologic confirmation. The data were collected and statistically analyzed using Student's t test for parametric data and Fisher's exact test for contingency tables (P &lt; .05 was accepted as statistically significant).
Since November 2005, 3 patients with symptomatic CU have undergone laparoscopic repair of their anomaly at our institutes. In all 3 cases, the ureter was transected and positioned anteriorly with an end-to-end anastomosis. In 2 cases, the retrocavally located ureteral segment was resected.
The retrospective data from 1339 patients who had undergone transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy from November 2003 to June 2008 were reviewed. An automatic biopsy gun with an 18-gauge needle was used to obtain 10-core biopsies for first biopsies and &gt; or =12-core for repeat biopsies. These patients had received 500 mg ciprofloxacin orally twice daily for 5 days, beginning 24 hours before biopsy. All biopsies were performed as outpatient procedures.
From June 2007 to April 2008, 5 patients with congenital vaginal absence and 1 patient with a total vaginectomy defect after ablative surgery underwent total vaginal reconstruction with pedicled DIEP flaps. Preoperative mapping of the perforators was performed using enhanced computed tomography (CT) scanning with three-dimensional reconstruction. The desired perforators were selected according to their diameters and intramuscular courses. The vertically oriented DIEP flaps were then raised and tubed to form the neovagina, which was brought to the prerectal pocket through a retropubic tunnel.
A 57-year-old woman with hypertension, right-sided flank pain, and radiographic evidence of an atrophic right kidney consented for NOTES transvaginal nephrectomy. Pneumoperitoneum was achieved with a Veress needle inserted deep in the umbilicus. Under direct vision, a colpotomy was made and a transvaginal port positioned. Using standard and articulating operating instruments inserted transvaginally, the kidney was mobilized and the renal hilum was controlled with an endovascular stapler. The kidney was placed in a laparoscopic retrieval bag and extracted through the vaginal incision. Salient demographic and operative data were obtained.
A total of 36 samples were selected from 888 adult patients residing in São Paulo who had previously been diagnosed in two independent studies in our laboratory as being infected with subclade F1 based on pol subgenomic fragment sequencing. Proviral DNA was amplified from the purified genomic DNA of all 36 blood samples by 5 fragments overlapping PCR followed by direct sequencing. Sequence data were obtained from the 5 fragments of pure subclade F1 and phylogenetic trees were constructed and compared with previously published sequences. Subclades F1 that exhibited mosaic structure with other subtypes were omitted from any further analysis
The study was conducted with three different groups of participants: patients waiting for liver transplantation (N = 31 in joint evaluation and N = 30 in each of the two separate evaluation conditions); students (N = 30 in join evaluation and N = 30 in each of the two separate evaluation conditions); and healthy adults (N = 30 in joint evaluation and N = 30 in each of the two separate evaluation conditions). Participants were presented with hypothetical scenarios and asked how good (or bad) were their feelings toward one or two types of donor (e.g., human and pig).
Lewis rat islets or skin was transplanted into wild type B6 mice or into B6 mice that were Jalpha18(null), CD1(null), or beta2 microglobulin (beta2M)(null) NK 1.1 depleted, or perforin(null). Graft recipients were pretreated with an infusion of donor derived spleen cells and a brief course of anti-CD154 mAb treatments. Additional groups received mAb or cells only.
We examined whether human sequences in chimeric mice could be measured with quantitative real-time polymerase chain reactions for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 1 repeat element, sex-determining region Y, or short tandem repeats (STR) across human leukocyte antigen (HLA) regions, which are distinct from rodent genomes.
Streptozotocin-treated (50 mg/kg) monkeys (n = 12, follow-up of 6 to 231 days) were compared with non-diabetic animals (n = 5; follow-up, 180 days). Metabolic [fasting and intravenous glucose tolerance tests (IVGTTs) for serum levels of glucose, insulin, glucagon] and morphologic (endocrine volume density and cell mass for insulin and glucagon) were compared between non-diabetic and diabetic animals. Six additional diabetic primates were given transplants of 15 000 adult pig islet equivalents without immunosuppression to monitor glucose, glucagon, insulin, and porcine C-peptide levels until 48 h after transplantation.
Here, the combination of nuclear transfer cloning and RNAi technology was used to produce pigs that may not propagate PERV. Small interfering RNAs (siRNA) were expressed as short hairpin RNAs (shRNA) against the gag and pol PERV genes, respectively, under the control of a RNA polymerase III (pol III), or a pol II promoter. PERV gag and pol model-genes, in combination with a Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) reporter system, were developed to assess in vitro PERV target knockdown. Two shRNAs were selected, and transgenic pigs were produced that expressed the anti-gag and -pol shRNAs, in tandem, under the control of a ubiquitous pol II promoter.
The TY8000 servo-handle tension test machine was used to measure biomechanical indices, such as bending stiffness, radial pedestal, and stress-straining. The residual stress and bursting strength of adult-excised porcine trachea was evaluated.
Imipenem-resistant clinical isolates were collected from 23 hospitals and one commercial laboratory participating in the KONSAR program in 2005. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect MBL genes.
A total of 405 schoolchildren (211 boys and 194 girls, aged: 10-13 years), living in Seoul, Korea, participated in this study. The participants were divided into 3 groups according to their weight and height standard deviation score. Psychological assessments were performed using the Korean-Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL).
We recruited pregnant nonsmokers from the prenatal care clinics of a university hospital and two community health centers, and their urinary cotinine concentrations were measured.
Infertile couples who have applied to IVF were admitted into this study when the male partner's sperm concentration was &gt; 20 x 10(6)/mL and motility &gt; 30%. Pre- and post swim-up semen quality parameters including concentration, motility, sperm morphology and AI were evaluated in a prospective, randomized and blinded fashion. The couples were divided prospectively into 2 groups. In group I (25 couples) 50 000 sperm per oocyte were used for insemination considering post swim-up acrosome index, and in group II (25 couples) 50 000 sperm per oocyte were used for insemination without considering post swim-up acrosome index.
Six female cynomolgus monkeys, aged 17-21 years, were randomized into 2 groups by the stratified weight: the OVX and sham-operation groups (n = 3 in each group). The experimental period was 16 months. Lumbar bone mineral density (BMD) in vivo and serum and urinary bone turnover markers were longitudinally measured, and peripheral quantitative computed tomographic and bone histomorphometric analyses were performed on trabecular bone of the lumbar vertebra, femoral neck, and distal radius at the end of the experiment.
The patients in this study were followed up prospectively in preoperative and postoperative 12 months periods. The 20 ophthalmologists in 14 hospitals were asked to refer about 20 patients who were scheduled to undergo cataract surgery from March and June of 1997. A multiple regression analysis was used to identify the degree of the appropriate surgery associated with the changes of outcomes. The outcomes were designed as the clinical and functional outcomes (visual acuity, visual function, satisfaction with vision, and satisfaction with overall care).
Ligamentum flavum tissues were harvested from OLF and non-OLF patients during surgery. OLF and non-OLF cells were isolated from explant cultures. Cultured cells were analyzed using immunofluorescence staining and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
Seven adult, 20 kg mongrel dogs underwent evoked response laryngeal electromyography under 0.5 to 1.0 MAC (minimum alveolar concentration) isoflurane anesthesia. The internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve was stimulated through bipolar platinum-iridium electrodes, and recording electrodes were positioned in the ipsilateral and contralateral thyroarytenoid muscles.
We retrospectively evaluated the CT images of the control group (n=200), and the pectus excavatum before and after correction groups (n=178), and calculated the CDIs; cardiac compression index (CCI), and cardiac asymmetry index (CAI). We also calculated chest wall compression index (CWCI) and asymmetry index (CWAI) on the axial images. We performed logistic regression analysis using each index and age as predictor variables.
Prostatitis was induced by 17 beta-estradiol (E2) and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in Wistar male rats (n = 20). Ten rats were placed in the oligonol-treated group and 10 in the E2 + DHT-treated group. The other 10 rats were also included as normal control group. Oligonol (60 mg/kg/day) was administered via gavage tube for 4 weeks. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were quantified, and phosphorylation of IkappaBa and histological changes were also evaluated in prostatic tissue.
Tissue samples were collected from 20 cervical cancer patients and 20 normal controls. HSP60 expression of cervical cancer and normal tissues were verified by the 2D gel proteomics, semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot analyses.
Sixty healthy volunteers (male 35, female 25, 36-70 years) were divided into &lt; or = 50 and &gt; 50 years groups, based on gender. Women &gt; 50 years were post-menopause. IGF-I, IGFBP-3, and GH were determined by immunoradiometric assay.
Aortic rings were suspended in order to record isometric tension. Concentration-response curves for phenylephrine (10(-9) to 10(-5) M) were generated in the presence or absence of one of the following drugs: fentanyl (3 x 10(-7), 10(-6), 3 x10(-6) M), 5-methylurapidil (3 x10(-8), 10(-7), 3 x 10(-7) M), chloroethylclonidine (10(-5) M) and BMY 7378 (3 x 10(-9), 10(-8), 3 x 10(-8) M). Phenylephrine concentration-response curves were generated in the presence or absence of fentanyl in rings pretreated with either 3 x10(-9) M prazosin, 10(-9) M 5-methylurapidil or 3 x 10(-9) M BMY 7378.
Normal mice were used for experiments. Some of the mouse lungs were prepared by the lung fixation-inflation method. The resulting sponge-like inflated lung samples were used for microtomography. The remaining mouse lungs were cut into 10 microm sections and were used for microradiography and optical microscopic correlation. The experiments on mouse lung samples were performed at the 7B2 beamline of the Pohang Light Source in Korea.
One hundred-six responses from the Delphi survey done by medical school professors and 230 completed questionnaires from medical students were used for analysis. We also set out to analyze the level of medical professionalism in newly entering medical students using a 5-point Likert scale.
There were 86 patients operated by the Er-YAG laser stapedotomy from 2001 to 2007 were analyzed retrospectively, with 23 male, 63 female and 13 double ears and with the average age of 48 years old, ranging from 12 to 78. All of 99 ears suffered deafness of conduction. The average air-bone-gap (ABG) of all patients before surgery was (37.4+/-9.0) dB HL (ranging from 13.7 to 58.7 dB). The patients followed-up over 6 weeks after the surgery was regarded as the short-term result, while over one year follow-up as the long-term effect (according to the standard of the Committee on Hearing and Equilibrium of the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery). The followed-up average time was (26.3+/-15.8) months (range from 14 to 73 months). The pre-post-operation average bone conduction auditory threshold of 2 kHz and 4 kHz were observed. The data of the patient whether or not has the symptoms of tinnitus and dizzy and the lasted days were also recorded.
Between 2000 to 2007, fourteen patients with recurrent diseases of the posterior fossa nerves in Shandong provincial hospital were recruited in this study, all of whom were subjected to revision surgery. The clinical manifestations and surgical findings were retrospectively reviewed.
Sixty-three ears with overlay tympanoplasty were reviewed and followed up for the external auditory canal, tympanic membrane and hearing.
Cochlear implantation was performed in 26 patients with bilateral profound sensorineural hearing loss and OME. Non-Surgical Treatment was conducted for OME before the following implantation. According to the standards of the indications and surgery time, surgery was carried out. During the process of surgery operation, related lesions of OME were completely removed and proper drainage was then constructed. After the surgery, the patients were regularly followed up, and the effective of cochlear implantation was evaluated.
The chief complains, nystagmus during positioning test and particle repositioning maneuver (PRM) were recorded in detail from 66 PC-BPPV cases during Dec.2007 and Apr.2008, and verifying possible pathogenesis of BPPV was based on nystagmus.
The clinical data were analyzed retrospectively in 40 patients with sinonasal adenoid cystic carcinoma. The characters of survival rate, local recurrence and distant metastasis in these patients were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method and Log-rank test.
Fifty-two patients with neurogenic dysphagia underwent FEES and videofluoroscopy (VF) within a 2-day period. The results obtained were compared.
Sixty three cases of traumatic laryngotracheal stenosis treated in the Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Chinese People's Liberation Arauy General Hospital from 1993-2006 were reviewed. The surgical treatment and the effects were analyzed.
Fourty-five patients with T1-T4 and clinically N0 laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer were recruited. For each patient a peritumoral submucosal injection of 99mTc-labeled sulfur colloid (99mTc-SC) was performed and lymph node mapping was performed by lymphoscintigraphy two hours afterward. The SLN was localized by a handheld gamma probe intraoperatively 10-12 hours after the injection. All hot lymph nodes accumulating activity were harvested and initially termed sentinel nodes. Selective neck dissections were performed for all patients. The specimen of SLN was sent to the pathologist for the following analysis: formal paraffin embedded section, consecutive section and immunohistochemistry assay. The results was compared to the remaining lymphadenectomy specimen. Resection of the primary tumour depended on the location and the T classification.
Voice rehabilitation were performed for 60 cases with Amatsu's tracheoesophageal shunt operation after total laryngectomy with sphincter mechanism, in which 20 cases were involved in post-operation radiation therapy.
Thirty nine cases of cervical chylous leakage from June 1992 to June 2008 were retrospectively analyzed in this hospital. All of the 39 cases were cured by treating with conservative individualized therapy, including the applying of diet with high calorie, high protein and low fat and fatty food should only contains medium-chain triglycerides, total parenteral nutrition, keep the balance of hydrogen and electrolyte and correct hypoproteinemia, local pressure dressing, high persistent vacuum drainage (-50 approximately -80 kPa) and/or somatostatin analogue.
AR model in guinea pigs was established by using ovalbumin. The animals were divided into three groups. Group one was sensitized continuously by ovalbumin, group two was treated with Hemin as induction group, and group three was treated with zinc protoporphyrin (ZnPP) as suppression group. The guinea pigs treated with saline were used as control. The behavior science scores, eotaxin concentration of nasal lavage, IgE in blood serum were recorded, and the plasma concentrations of CO and H2S were determined, then the expression of hemeoxygenase (HO)-1, cystathionine-beta-synthase (CBS) and cystathionine-gamma-lyase (CSE) were measured in nasal mucosa by fluorescent quantitative RT-PCR.
The expression of Ang-1, Ang-2, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), CD34 and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) were studied in 62 human OSCCs, 30 adjacent noncancerous oral tissues and 10 normal oral mucosa by conventional immunohistochemistry. Microvessel density (MVD) and vessel maturation index (VMI) were also assessed with double-labeling immunohistochemistry staining against CD34, a marker of pan-endothelial cells, and that against alpha-SMA, a marker of mural cells (pericytes/smooth muscle cells). The images were analyzed with BioMias system.
HepG2 cells were Implanted into the liver of nude mice. The implanted mice were then treated with SRL and tacrolimus (FK506). The expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was detected by immunohistology, microvessel density (MVD) was counted by immunostaining with anti-CD34 antibody for endothelial cells. Tumor apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) assay.
22 cases of HCC patients with portal vein tumor thrombus were devided into 2 groups: 10 patients (group A) recieved stent implantation in combination with conformal radiation therapy, 12 patients (group B) recieved stent implantation and transcatheter arterial chemoembolization. The adverse reactions, and liver function before and after treatment were compared between the two groups. The stent patency rate at 4, 6 and 12 months and the survival rate at 3, 6 and 12 months were followed up. Comparison of liver function was analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank test. Comparison of stent patency rate curves and survival curves was analyzed by Log rank test.
HCC cell lines (HCC-LM3) were transfected with the chemically synthesized small interfering RNA (siRNA). Real-time PCR and Western blot were used to quantify the mRNA and OPN protein levels. The malignant phenotypes including cellular growth, colony formation and invasion capability of the HCC cells were analyzed.
413 patients receiving curative resections at Tianjin Cancer Hospital for small HCC (&lt; or = 3 cm) from January 1997 to December 2003 were divided into four groups: HCV only (n = 75), HBV only (n = 251), HBV and HCV (n = 33), and neither HBV nor HCV (NBNC, n = 54). The preoperative status and postoperative recurrence were recorded. Survival analysis were used to assess the impact of HBV/HCV status on HCC recurrence.
Non-active HBsAg carriers suffering from cancer, autoimmune diseases recieving immunosuppression therapy or cytotoxic chemotherapy were enrolled in the study. The in-patients from June 2002 to April 2007 in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University were assigned in the control group. The outpatients or in-patients with the similar disease condition from April 2007 to July 2008 were enrolled in the preventive group. The characteristics of HBV replication, liver damage, clinical symptoms and effectiveness of nucleos(t)ide analogues as prophylaxis for HBV reactivation were observed. The nucleos(t)ide analogues were used before chemotheraphy or immunosuppressive agents. The characheristics and clinical manifestations about HBV reactivation were investigated.
HBV DNA level, HBV genotype, basal core promoter (BCP) and precore mutation were examined in 52 HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B patients with PNAL (defined as normal ALT measured on at least 3 occasions in the intervals of about two months over a period of 12 months or more prior to the biopsy).
405 CHB patients in Guangdong Provincial Hospital were randomly divided into 2 groups, 220 in the treated group, and 185 in the control group. The control group was treated with Lamivudine for 18 months. The treated group was treated with Lamivudine in combination with Chai Shao Liu Jun Tang for 18months. At the 3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th and 18th month during the treatment, the clinical symptoms, ALT normalization rate, HBeAg seroconversion rate, the proportion of patients with undetectable serum HBV DNA, and YMDD mutation rate were observed.
Liver biopsy was performed in fifty-six patients with chronic hepatitis B. The liver tissues were observed under light microscope and transmitted electronic microscope.
The TGFbeta3 cDNA was cloned into rAAV2 vector. Rats were randomly divided into four groups: normal control group, model group, negative control group and TGFbeta3 group. Hepatic fibrosis was induced by hypodermic injection of 40% CCl(4). Recombinant AAV2-TGFbeta3 viral particles were injected via the vena caudalis one week before CCl(4) treatment. Rats were executed 8 weeks after CCl(4) treatment, global histological change was observed after HE staining, the distribution of the collagen fibers was observed after masson staining, histochemistry was done to observe the expression of collagen I; The positive area rate of the collagen fibers and the average optical rate of collagen I were quantified.
The proliferation of primary rat HSCs treated with different concentration of Danshensu was checked by MTT colorimetric assay. The expression and phosphorylation of JNK and P-JNK was detected by western blotting. Synthesis and secretion of collagen I were detected by the quantitative immunocytochemical assay and ELISA.
The linearized expression element of pALB-PEG10, which contained mouse albumin promoter, structural gene of PEG10, and polyaenylation signal sequence, was microinjected into 3741 KM mouse fertilized ova. The manipulated embryos were then transplanted into the oviducts of 94 pseudopregnant recipient mice. All the newborn mice were screened by PCR to detect genomic DNA in tail tissue, then PEG10 mRNA and protein expression were detected by RT-PCR and western blot, respectively in the positive mice. Hepatoma cell H22 was subcutaneously inoculated into the right armpit of wild type mice and No.17, No.33 transgenic mice. Tumor size was measured every week. Mice were sacrificed on day 12 and then the tumors were exercised and weighted. Tumors and livers were fixed in formaldehyde and sectioned. The sections were stained with hematoxylin/eosin and examined under microscope. The expression of PEG10 protein was detected with immunohistochemistry method.
A case-cohort study using Logistic regression multiple variables analysis of medical record data sets was conducted to examine infant and perinatal risk factors for hepatoblastoma.
Cells were divided into 3 groups: a tensile stress group, a compressive stress group and a control group. The four-point bending system was used to stimulate A549 cells. The cells were stimulated by tensile stress or compressive stress respectively at the same magnitude of 1000 microstrain for 6 h. Sham cells in control group were not subjected to mechanical loading. The protein level and mRNA level of ICAM-1 were measured by Western blot and RT-PCR. Then an inhibitor was added to further explore the possible mechanism. The cells were divided into a tensile stress+inhibitor group, a compressive stress + inhibitor group and a control group. The cells were pretreated with PD98059, a specific inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) for 60 min, and then stimulated respectively by tensile stress or compressive stress at the same magnitude of 1000 microstrain for 6 h or were not subjected to mechanical loading. ICAM-1 protein and mRNA concentrations were determined by Western blot and RT-PCR, respectively. The data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA and Student-Newman-Keuls were used to compare 2 means.
Twenty-four adult male SD rats were randomly assigned into 3 experimental groups: a control group, a 18 h CMV group, and a 24 h CMV group. Trans-diaphragmatic pressure (Pdi), maximal trans-diaphragmatic pressure (Pdimax), diaphragm electromyogram (EMGdi), and diaphragm muscle force were measured during CMV at various stimulation frequencies. Morphological changes of the diaphragm myofibril were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoform expression were analyzed with SDS-glycerol PAGE and Western blotting.
Sixteen patients (12 men and 4 women, mean age 59 years) with ALS were selected for this study at Respiratory Department of the Shougang Hospital, Peking University from January 2002 to March 2008. After the disease had been controlled by anti-infective therapy and comprehensive treatment, the patients received TMV, through the improved ("Xiang's" connection) non-invasive BiPAP ventilator connected with tracheotomy tube, and on-going home mechanical ventilation (HMV). The blood gas was evaluated during invasive ventilation and non-invasive ventilation before discharge. Family members of the patients were trained for the use of non-invasive ventilators. The use of ventilators and the patients' condition were regularly followed and the survival rate calculated. Statistical analysis was carried out by using one-way ANOVA.
Twenty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 4 groups. Group N: normal control group; Group L: ALI model by LPS intratracheal instillation; Group Za: ALI model+inhaled NO 20x10(-6) mg/L; Group Zb: ALI model+inhaled NO 100x10(-6) mg/L. Lung morphology was studied and COX-2 was detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC) while TLR4 by fluorescent quantitative PCR (FQ-PCR).
The clinical and pathological features of a patient admitted to our hospital on September 6, 2007 with lymphoma presenting with some unusual clinical symptoms including subcutaneous nodules, pleural effusion and orbital tumor were analyzed and related literatures were reviewed.
Five hundred and seventy consecutive inpatients with highly suspected APE underwent prospective MDCTA at the time of initial diagnosis. Three clinical predication scoring systems (Wells', Geneva' and revised Geneva') were used to estimate APE in low, moderate and high probability groups. Two radiologists independently reviewed the MDCTA without any clinical information. When consensus could not be reached, a third radiologist with 20-years' experience was asked to make the final decision. The threshold value for the prediction of APE by the 3 scoring systems was measured by receiver-operating-characteristics (ROC) analysis.
Data from 83 IIP patients admitted in Peking University Third Hospital from January, 2001 to May, 2007 were retrospectively studied. Three sections of HRCT scans were analyzed, including the level of the tracheal carina, left atrium, and right diaphragmatic dome. The mean of percentage of reticular pattern and honeycombing on the 3 HRCT sections was calculated (HRCT score). To predict the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the response to corticosteroid treatment when HRCT score was 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% as cutoff value. Software SPSS 11.0 was used for statistical analysis, the t test or Mann-Whitney u tests for quantitative variables and the chi-square test for qualitative variables.
Human vascular endothelial cells (ECV-304) were cultured in vitro, and those at the exponential growth phase were studied in experiments. The experiment was completed through 3 steps: (1) ECV-304 cells were cultured with 0.0%, 0.5%, 1.0% and 5.0% CSE for 12 h. (2) ECV-304 cells were exposed to 5.0% CSE for 0, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 24 h. (3) Endothelial cells were treated by 5% CSE, together with different concentrations of selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib (0.0, 2.5, 5.0, 10.0, 20.0, 50.0 micromol/L concentrations) for 9 h. The cell apoptosis rate was tested by Hoechst staining and flow cytometry methods, and the expression of COX-2 protein by immunocytochemistry and Western blotting.
(1) The experiment groups were divided into 10 micromol/L 4-HNE and control groups. The phosphorylation of ERK-1, JNK, P38MAPK and the combining activity of AP-1 after 10 micromol/L 4-HNE stimulating for 0.5, 2, 4, 8, 12 hours were all estimated. (2) The IL-8 and IL-8 mRNA, gamma-GCS and gamma-GCS mRNA were measured after 4-HNE (or serum-free medium) stimulating 0.5, 2, 4, 8, 12 hours. (3) The effects of PD98059 and erythromycin on the expression of gamma-GCS, gamma-GCS mRNA, IL-8 and erythromycin on AP-1 combining activity by the 4-HNE were all detected.
2135 smears of secretion were made from 1823 hospitalized wounded victims of Wenchuan Earthquake to detect the pathogens. Specimens were delivered to be cultured. The bacteria thus obtained were identified. Drug sensitivity test was conducted.
Five MRSA isolates were obtained from the wounds caused by earthquake of 5 in-patients admitted into the West China Hospital, and 6 MRSA isolates were obtained from the inpatient of the same hospital during the same period. DNA fingerprint alas was obtained by repetitive extragenic palindromic sequence-based PCR (Rep-PCR) and homolog analysis was conducted with the help of Rep-based DiversiLab Microbial Typing system.
Bacterial culture and identification were conducted on 139 clinical specimens from 108 patients with open injuries combined with infection. Drug-sensitive test was carried out by Kirby-Bauer method on the isolated strains.
Fifty-two ADHD children aged (9.5 +/- 1.7) and 45 age-matched children without ADHD were asked to perform a Chinese character semantic priming task while electroencephalogram was recorded. During the Chinese character semantic priming task the subjects were instructed to judge whether the presented target word was a related word, unrelated word, or a pseudoword and event-related potentials (ERPs) were elicited and analyzed with the brain electricity source analysis (BESA) software.
36 patients with benign diseases undergoing selective abdominal operation, 19 males and 17 females, aged 20 - 65, included 12 with normal glucose regulation and normal weight (NGR-NW group), 12 with normal glucose regulation and overweight/obesity (NGR-OW/OB group), and 12 with type 2 diabetes and overweight/obesity (T2DM-OW/OB group). Abdominal subcutaneous and omental adipose tissues were obtained during operation. Real-time quantitative PCR was used to measure the omentin mRNA level. The level of fasting serum omentin was measured by ELISA. Meanwhile blood glucose, HbA(1C), lipids and insulin levels were measured. Body weight, BMI and waist hip ratio (WHR) were evaluated and insulin sensitivity was assessed by homeostasis model assessment insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR).
44 100 subjects, 20 570 males and 23 530 females, aged 25 - 75, who had participated in the Chinese Residents Nutrition and Health Examination Survey held in the mainland of China 2002, underwent anthropometry, measurement of total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), high density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), fasting plasma glucose (FPG), and 2 hour plasma glucose (2 h PG) after 75 g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). 22 570 subjects, 10 698 males and 11 872 females, were divided into 5 groups: control group without MS risk factors (n = 17 518), Group of diabetes mellitus (DM) without MS (n = 638), group of MS with normoglycemia (n = 2501), Group of MS with mild hyperglycemia (n = 1058), and group MS with DM (n = 855). The relationship between MS and stroke was studied by multiple logistic regression analysis.
The clinical data of 155 consecutive patients with TON treated with TEOND after failure of mega-dose steroid therapy were retrospectively analyzed, their outcomes were summarized after follow-up, and then Logistic regression was used to analyze the prognosis-related information to explore the factors influencing prognosis.
Specimens of thyroid tissues were collected from 53 patients of papillary thyroid carcinoma, and 20 patients of nodular goiter, including 20 specimens of the tissues with thyroid nodules and 20 specimens of normal thyroid tissues adjacent to the nodules (as controls). Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of MUC1 and beta-catenin in these tissues. The correlation of the expression of MUC1/beta-catenin with different clinico-pathological parameters of the papillary thyroid carcinoma patients was analyzed.
Pediatric patients with RSV bronchiolitis were collected, 11 with the Lowell scores &gt; or = 10 (severe group), and 19 with the Lowell scores &lt; 10 (mild group). 20 RSV bronchiolitis patients in convalescent group, 24 patients with bacterial pneumonia, and 15 patients as control group. The percentages of neutrophils were detected. ELISA was used to detect the concentration of neutrophil elastase (NE) and interleukin (IL)-8, and the elastase inhibition capacity (EIC)/free neutrophil elastase activity were detected by colorimetry. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the expression of alpha(1) antitrypsin (alpha(1)AT).
Thirty-four patients with newly diagnosed, histologically proven CD20-positive DLBL received rituximab combined chemotherapy (CHOP regimen) for 6 - 8 courses of 21 days. Peripheral blood samples were collected from these 34 patients and 20 healthy blood donors. PCR was used to detect the FcgammaRIIIA polymorphisms. The initial efficacy was evaluated based on the criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma by International Working Group.
117 patients of PTMC, 27 males and 90 females, aged 45 (16 - 68), underwent total thyroidectomy (or lobectomy) and central compartment lymph node dissection with or without lateral neck dissection. The correlation of CCLNM with age, sex, tumor size, tumor capsule, multifocality, and extrathyroid extension was analyzed.
10 492 patients underwent LC from May 1996 to May 2006, 8566 of them were treated by the method to identify the cystic duct, common hepatic duct, and common bile duct during LC (tri-duct method group), and the left 1926 cases whose cystic duct failed to be exposed easily were treated with the method to identify at least two of the 4 structures (cystic lymph node, Hartmann's pouch, cystic artery, and emptiness of cystic triangle) so as to help identify the cystic duct (tri-duct plus tri-structure group). The operating time, amount of blood loss, open conversion rate, and morbidity were compared between these 2 groups.
The clinical data of 15 patients with adrenal cyst, 9 males and 6 females, aged 42 (32 - 65), diagnosed and treated 1995 - 2005 were reviewed. The average size of the cyst was 5.3 cm in diameter. Nine cysts were in the left adrenal gland and 6 cysts in the right. The diagnostic accuracy rates of MR imaging, CT, and B-mode ultrasonography were 100% (4/4), 86.7% (13/15), and 73.3% (11/15) respectively. Thirteen patients underwent operation: unroofing in cyst via retroperitoneal laparoscopy (n = 9), adrenalectomy via laparoscopy (n = 1), or cystectomy via open surgery (n = 3).
The cancer registry data 1999 - 2007 of Dafeng were analyzed retrospectively.
Ventricular cardiomyocytes were obtained from a neonatal rat, cultured, and then randomly divided into 6 groups: normal control group; hypoxia group cultured in an airtight chamber gassed with 95% N(2)/5% CO2 at 37 degrees C for 72 hours so as to induce ERS; tunicamycin group treated with 10 microg/ml tunicamycin so as to induce ERS too; SERCA2a group transfected with recombinant adenovirus expressing the target gene SERCA2a (rAd-SERCA2a); SERCA2a + hypoxia group; and SERCA2a + tunicamycin group. Western blotting was used to detect the protein expression of SERCA2a, and glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) and C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), both the ERS markers. Flow cytometry was used to detect the apoptosis of the cardiomyocytes, and trypan blue staining was used to detect the survival rate of the cardiomyocytes.
Ten SD rats underwent repeated peritoneal injection of pig serum twice a week for 8 weeks so as to establish liver fibrosis models. Another 5 rats were injected intraperitoneally with normal saline as control group. Then the rats were sacrificed with their livers taken out. Primary hepatocytes and HSC were isolated from the fibrotic livers and cultured. BMP-7 at the concentrations of 10, 50, or 100 mg/L was added into the culture media for 24 and 96 hours respectively. ELISA was used to detect the levels of collagen of type I, III, and IV. BMP-7 at the concentration of 50 mg/L was added into the culture media for 96 h, then immunofluorescence staining was conducted on the cells to examine the levels of TbetaR-I and TbetaR-II, TGF-beta1 receptors on the cell surface, and the Smad2/3 level. Real-time RT-PCR was used to detect the TGF-beta1 mRNA expression in the cells.
Retroviral vector of HSV1-tk gene and breast carcinoma cell line T47D-tk stably expressing the HSV1-tk gene were established. Breast carcinoma cells of the lines T47D and T47D-tk were cultured, and observed by inverted microscope. Growth curve was drawn. Genomic DNA of T47D-tk cells was extracted, and amplified by PCR with HSV1-tk and HSV1-tk P2 as primers. Agarose gel electrophoresis was used to identify the HSV1tk gene. Suspensions of T47D and T47D-tk cells were inoculated subcutaneously at bilateral roots of foreleg of female BALB/c nude mice respectively. The growth of tumor was observed every day.
Peripheral blood samples were collected from 253 CI recipients with autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing impairment (NSHI), 174 males and 79 females, aged (8 +/- 9) (112 months-52.7 years), and 301 children with normal hearing level as controls. PCR was used to detect the GJB2 mutations. The auditory threshold with CI and speech recognition of the CI recipients with GJB2 mutation were compared with those of the CI recipients without GJB2 mutation (control group). Questionnaire survey, with meaningful auditory integration scale (MAIS), categories of auditory performance (CAP), and speech intelligibility rating (SIR), was used for young infants.
Two clinical questions were identified. (1) Whether levodopa (LD) dose, LD treatment duration, the time from disease onset to initiation of LD can predict the onset of motor complications in PD? and (2) whether dopamine agonists (DA) used in de novo patients can delay the onset of motor complications? Literatures on observation studies of factors associated with motor complications and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of DA compared to LD in treatment of de novo patients published before May 2008 were retrieved from Pubmed, EMbase, and Cochrane Database. Methodology quality was critically assessed.
Forty ASA I - II patients aged 20 - 60 underwent general anesthesia via intravenous injection of propofol, fentanyl, and vecuronium to achieve the bispectral index (BIS) at the level of (50 + 10) during neurosurgical operation. The patients were all given fentanyl infusion at a rate of 2 microg/kg/h during the operation and continuous vecuronium injection while the value of train of four stimulations (TOF) was monitored under 3 different levels: TOF = 4 (TOF(4)), TOF = 2 (TOF(2)), and TOF = 0 (TOF(0)). The values of amplitude and latency at the 3 forearm muscles, forearm flexors (FF), abductor pollicis brevis (APB), and abductor digiti minimi (ADM) were monitored and compared under stable hemodynamic status.
160 patients scheduled for surgery of the hand or forearm were randomly divided into 4 equal groups (Groups A, B, C, and D). To receive 8, 7, 6, or 5 ml of anesthetic mixture of 0.75% ropivacaine and 2% lidocaine for radial nerve, axillary nerve, median nerve, ulnar nerve, median cutaneous nerve of arm, median antebrachial cutaneous nerve, and lateral antebrachial cutaneous nerve respectively ultrasound-guided infraclavicular brachial plexus block via coracoid approach. The time for anesthesia taking effect, anesthesia maintenance time, and quality of sensory block were observed.
164 consecutive patients with primary congenital glaucoma (257 eyes), underwent initial surgery of trabeculotomy between 1996 and 2007. Follow-up was conducted for 30.9 (8.6 - 58.3) months, with a follow-up rate of 89.02%. Multivariate analysis by Logistic regression was conducted to analyze the relation of the factors including age of onset, time between onset and operation, preoperative intraocular pressure, clarity of cornea, and corneal diameter to the failure of surgery. Cox proportional hazards regression modeling was used to analyze the factors related to success of surgery.
One hundred and ninety-four patients on maintenance dialysis with the hemoglobin (Hb) level of 60 - 100 g/L and hematocrit (Hct) of 18% - 30% were randomly divided into 2 sex, age, duration of dialysis, weekly erythropoietin dosage, and hematological parameters-matched groups: intravenous iron sucrose group (n = 102) and oral medication group (n = 92). The intravenous iron sucrose group were sub-divided into 2 subgroups: (1) hemodialysis (HD) subgroup receiving intravenous iron sucrose 200 mg once a week for 4 weeks and then 100 mg once a week for a further 8 weeks, and (2) peritoneal dialysis (PD) subgroup receiving intravenous iron sucrose 200 mg once a week for 4 weeks and then 200 mg once every other week for a further 8 weeks. The oral medication group received ferrous succinate 200 mg tid for 12 weeks. The levels of serum ferritin (SF), transferrin saturation (TSAT), Hb, and Hct were examined before treatment and 4, 8, and 12 weeks after treatment.
The clinico-pathological data of 8 patients with primary peritoneal adenocarcinoma, all female, aged 55.7 (45 - 69), were analyzed retrospectively. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of pan-cytokine, cytokine (CK) 7, CK20, CA125, CEA, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), vimentin, calretinin, and P63 in the specimens of tumor obtained during tumor reduction surgery. Microscopy was conducted for pathological examination.
Muscle biopsy specimens were obtained from the biceps muscles of arm of 4 MD patients and 4 healthy controls. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate the mRNA expression of MyoD in the specimens.
Peripheral blood samples were collected from 28 patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) without complications, and gender ratio- and age-matched 32 patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), 28 patients with DPNP, and 28 normal controls. Dual-antibody ELISA was used to detect the serum MIF, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 levels.
Fifty-five prostate cancer specimens were obtained from 55 patients following intermittent androgen blockade during operation of transurethral resection of prostate. Monoclonal antibody immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of chromogranin A (CgA), a specific marker of neuroendocrine cell in the specimens. Follow-up was conducted for 25 (5 - 85) months. Serum prostate specific antigen (PSA), bone scan, chest X-ray, and computerized tomography were performed regularly during follow-up.
Nineteen patients (20 sites) of infected nonunion with large skeletal defects in tibiae (n = 18) or ulna/radii (n = 2), 18 males and 1 female aged 31.3 (8 - 51), were treated with debridement, external fixation, and granulated cancellous bone grafting, 14 patients (15 sites) by cancellous bone autografting and 5 patients (5 sites) by cancellous bone allografting. Follow-up was conducted for 32.7 (20 - 56) months.
Poly (A)(+)RNA was extracted from human breast cancer cells of the line MCF-7 treated by trichostatin A for 0, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, or 72 h. cDNA were synthesized and inserted reversely into PCEP 4 vector to construct an anti-sense cDNA library. HeLa cells were transfected with the library DNA or blank PCEP 4 vector as control group. All the transfected cells were screened by 200 nmol/L trichostatin A and 200 microg/ml hygromycin B. Screening was stopped when the control cells died. Then the surviving cell clones were amplified and Hirt DNA was extracted. Several expressed sequence tags were thus obtained. The data were analyzed by bioinformatics and interested EST fragment was chosen for preliminary functional screening.
The full length of human PEDF gene was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Human lung cancer cells of the line SKEMS1 were cultured and transfected with PEDF(exp), An eukaryotic expression vector constructed by recombinant DNA technology, so as to construct the SKMES1(PEDFexp) cells over-expressing PEDF protein. RT-PCR and Western blotting were used to confirm the mRNA and protein expression of PEDF in these cells. Another SKMES1 lung cancer cells were transfected with blank plasmids (SKMES1(pEF/His) cells). The SKMES1 cells not transfected were called SKMES1(WT) cells. The 3 kinds of SKMES1 cells were inoculated in the chorio-allantoic membrane (CAM) of chick embryo hatched for 7 days respectively. The size and weigh of the tumor were measured. The vessels density was examined.
MSCs were isolated from the bone marrows of SD rats. Walker-256 cancer cells were isolated from the cancerous ascites of rat and cultured. Forty-five SD rats were randomly divided into 3 equal groups: mixed transplantation group undergoing laparotomy and transplantation of cancer cells mixed with MSCs into the liver, MSC IV transplantation group undergoing injection of MSCs into the caudal vein, and control group undergoing only MSC transplantation into the liver. MR imaging was performed s at days 3, 6, 9 and 12 after modeling to measure the maximum cross section area of the tumor. At day 12 the rats were killed after MR imaging with their livers taken out to undergo HE staining and pathological examination. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of vascular endothelial cell growth factors (VEGF), nm23 gene, a tumor metastasis inhibiting gene, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a nuclear polypeptide necessary in the DNA synthesis.
Mouse bone marrow-derived DCs were treated by 1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3) for 72 h. The expression levels of different Notch ligands: Jagged1, Jagged2, Delta1, Delta3, and Delta4 in these DCs were detected by RT-PCR and Western blotting. Mouse spleen CD4+ T cells were cultured with 1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3)-treated DCs or 1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3)-treated DCs blocked by polyclonal antibody of Jagged1 or Jagged2 (control group) for 48 h. The percentage of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells in CD4+ T cells was detected by flow cytometry (FCM). Ten mice underwent intraperitoneal injection of ovalbumin (OVA) to be sensitized and then divided into 2 groups to inhale 1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3)-treated DC suspension and PBS-DC suspension respectively for 6 successive days. Then the mice were killed. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was obtained to detect the eosinophil count and the levels of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, IL-13, and interferon (IFN)-gamma, and pathological examination of lung was conducted. Spleens were taken out to isolate the CD4+ T cells, and immunolabeling and FCM were used to detect the percentage of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells.
(1) Mature DCs were derived from mononuclear cells obtained from femur of BALB/c mouse and divided into 3 groups, T-bet group transfected with recombinant adenovirus Ad-T-bet containing T-bet gene, LacZ group transfected with recombinant adenovirus Ad-LacZ containing LacZ gene, and control group. Seven days later ELISA was used to detect the interferon (IFN)-gamma level in the culture fluid. (2) Airway inflammation abrogating trial. Twenty-four BALB/c mice were sensitized with intraperitoneal injection of ovalbumin (OVA) (on day 1 and 15) to establish asthma models, and then randomly divided into 3 equal groups: T-bet group injected intravenously with T-bet-modified DCs on day 27, LacZ group injected with LacZ-modified DCs, and model control group without intravenous injection. Two days later the model mice began to undergo challenge by inhalation of OVA twice (on day 29 - 31). Eight mice were used as control group treated with PBS. On day 37 all mice were killed, ELISA was used to detect the blood interleukin (IL)-4 and IFN-gamma levels, and microscopy was conducted to observe the airway inflammation. (3) Airway inflammation reversing trial. Another 24 model mice were divided into 3 equal groups as well: re-challenged T-bet group injected intravenously with T-bet-modified DCs on day 27 and 42, re-challenged LacZ group injected intravenously with LacZ-modified DCs on day 27 and 42, and model control group. Since the day 45 OVA inhalation was given once a day for successive 3 days. On day 49 these mice were all killed to undergo the tests as mentioned above.
The clinical data of 16 CSS patients were analyzed. Follow-up was conducted for 42 (14 - 76) months.
A questionnaire survey in a face-to-face setting was conducted among 360 asthmatic out-patients, 144 males and 316 females, aged (48 +/- 15), from June 2007 to December 2007 in 3 class 3 first level general hospitals in 3 Beijing urban districts.
Specimens of keloid and surrounding normal skin were collected from 12 patients with keloid during operation. Primary fibroblasts were isolated, cultured, and randomly divided into 3 groups: normal skin group, keloid group, and keloid with transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 group cultured with TGF-beta1 for 48 h. Immunofluorescence technique was used to detect the location of SphK1 and SphK2 protein. Real-time PCR and Western blotting were used to measure the mRNA and protein expression levels of SphK1 and SphK2.
Chest HRCT was performed in 47 patients with aGVHD of grade II - IV after allo-HSCT. Twenty-four of the patients underwent different treatment regimens against aGVHD. Before the treatment peripheral blood samples were collected to detect the serum interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Transbronchial biopsy was performed in 4 patients that failed to recover completely after treatment. Pulmonary function was examined in the patients who survived more than 6 months in every 3 months.
Voided urine samples were collected from 42 patients with pathologically confirmed recurrent bladder cancer and 24 bladder cancer patients without pathologically confirmed recurrence, all of which had undergone complete transurethral resection and had been followed up for more than 3 years. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was used with Spectrum Green to label the chromosome 7 and Spectrum Red to label the chromosome 17 of the exfoliated urothelial cells.
Seven patients seminal vesicle cyst 2.1 cm x 3.0 cm x 3.3 cm - 5.5 cm x 6.3 cm x 10.2 cm in size, aged 36 (21 - 65), with the symptoms of hematospermia (4 cases), hematuria (3 cases), epididymitis (2 cases), dysuria (1 case), bladder irritation symptoms (1 case), bloody mucus of urethral orifice after miction (1 case), perineal discomfort (2 case), and infertility (3 cases), underwent transurethral unroofing of seminal vesicle cyst.
Human hepatocellular carcinoma cells of the line SMMC7721 were cultured and randomly divided into 3 groups: experimental group transfected with siRNA to silence the DNMT3b, control group transfected with control siRNA, and normal group without transfection. The transfection rate of siRNA was detected by fluorescence microscopy. MTT method was used to measure the survival rate of the SMMC-7721 cells. Western blotting and cell proliferation assay were performed to evaluate the expression of cyclin D1 and cell growth. Methylation specific PCR (MSP) was performed to investigate whether the promoter of cyclin D1 was methylated.
Twenty-four SD rat were divided randomly in to 3 groups: cage-yoked group (YC Group, experimental control group), REM sleep deprivation group (SD Group) exposed to REM sleep deprivation by means of flower pot technique lasting for 48 hours, and Rim Group, receiving rimonabant, a cannabinoid antagonist, after REM sleep deprivation. 48 hours after the sleep deprivation abdominal electromyogram in response to colorectal distension (CRD) was recorded to asses the visceral sensitivity. Then the rats were killed with their central nervous system taken out. RT-PCR and Western blotting were used to detect the RNA and protein expression of cannabinoid receptor CB1, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), and monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL) in the thalamus, brain stem, and spinal cord.
We convened representatives from 10 of the member groups belonging to the Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup, members of the NCI's Gynecologic Cancer Steering Committee and its Cervical Cancer Task Force, investigators in the fields of imaging, translational research, gynecologic, radiation and medical oncology, patient advocates and NCI program staff for a two-day retreat.
Twenty-three patients with high cryptoglandular fistula-in-ano were prospectively studied over 1 year. The number of tracks, number of previous procedures and co-morbid conditions that could potentially affect outcome were noted. A seton was used to guide the AFP into the fistula track which was anchored at the primary opening.
We conducted a cross-sectional and descriptive study in 20 patients with SSc. All patients were evaluated in Physioteraphy Clinic of the Catholic University of Paraná, from July 2003 to April 2004. The evaluation was performed by Bioimpedance Body (BIA), the questionnaires Nutritional Risk Assessment (Determine), Mini Nutritional Assessment of Aging and Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain. The work muscle ability was assessed by measuring the peak torque of flexor and extensor muscles of the elbow in the isokinetic dynamometer Cybex Norm model 7000. We have calculated the mean and standard deviation for each variable analyzed, in addition to the percentage of peak torque deficit.
A male patient, 13 years old of age had recurrent anemia, cough, hemoptysis for 8 months. He had severe anemia and lung interstitial infiltrate on radiology studies. Bronchoalveolar lavage demonstrated hemosiderin deposits inside macrophage cells and positive Perl's reaction with PH diagnosis. The treatment was initiated with corticosteroids. After one month, he developed muscle weakness, Gottron's papules and elevated serum muscle enzymes. Muscle biopsy disclosed JDM diagnosis. Due to recurrent pulmonary hemorrhage, monthly methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide pulses and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) were started and clinical remission was achieved. He developed massive pulmonary hemorrhage, death and the necropsy confirmed PH.
8.75 ml ferrofluid with particle sizes of 250 or 500 nm were applied intravenously to two groups of seven New Zealand White rabbits in three doses in a time frame of 2 h. Clinical, serological,and histological evaluations were performed with regard to the tolerance of the ferrofluids.
Cross-sectional study.
Persons (n=90) living in the community with SCI (ASIA Impairment Scale A-D), level C5 or below, &gt; 15 years of age, &gt;12 months postinjury, and requiring a wheelchair for &gt;1 hours/day were divided into 2 groups based on their self-reported sport participation at interview: sport participants (n=45) and non-sport participants (n 5).
Prospective, follow-up study.
Neurologic rehabilitation unit of a tertiary care center.
Patients with spinal cord diseases who had stage III/IV pressure ulcers underwent surgical reconstruction and inpatient rehabilitation in 2005 with a minimum follow-up duration of 1 year.
Ulcer healing rate, postoperative complications, ulcers recurrence rate, and neurologic (ASIA grade), and functional recovery (Barthel Index).
Frequency analysis and paired t test on SPSS 13.0.
Thirty-eight patients with upper motor neuron involvement and sustained clonus.
The 38 patients were divided into 3 groups: cold group (n=19), tizanidine group (n=13), and patient control group (n=6). A separate group of 21 able-bodied volunteers served as controls for the cold group. The physiologic effects of cold application were measured in the able-bodied group and compared with the effects in the patients in the cold group. All participants were evaluated by clinical and electrophysiologic measurements.
Prospective experimental.
Hospital-based spinal cord injuries unit.
Cutaneous electrical stimulation of 4 dermatomes at ASIA sensory key points (C3, T1, L3, and S2) was performed on 40 control subjects. The lowest ascending stimulus intensity at which sensation was perceived was recorded as the EPT. Mean EPT values for each dermatome, as determined by 2 testers at 2 time points, were examined and plotted against a normative template. Differences and associations between intra- and inter-rater measurements and left-right measurements were studied. EPT results for 2 people with spinal cord injuries were also examined.
A total of 1,168 women and men were matched on level/completeness of SCI, follow-up year, and age to create 584 pairs. Exploratory factor analysis examined 1- and 2-factor models and congruence in 2 randomly split half samples to establish congruence of the factor solution and replication across gender.
Part of a larger cross-sectional study to determine the intra-rater reliability of the standards when applied to children and youth.
A total of 187 subjects participated in 2 repeated examinations performed by the same rater. A total of 7 raters participated in this study. Intraclass correlations coefficients (ICCs), with 95% CI were calculated to determine agreement between the 2 examinations for LT, PP, and TM.
Survey data were collected from 1388 adults with traumatic SCI of at least 1 year duration.
Selection of health behaviors was based on a bidimensional behavioral risk model. Behaviors were measured by core item sets from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System and supplemented by an alcohol screening measure, select fitness proxies, and the SCI Health Survey.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to left C2 hemisection surgery 1 week before experimentation. Bilateral phrenic nerve activity was recorded in anesthetized, vagotomized, and pancuronium paralyzed rats, and rolipram was intravenously applied (2 mg/kg).
A 41-year-old man with an incomplete T11-ASIA D SCI was studied during ITB titration. Spasticity and strength in the lower extremities were assessed clinically and neurophysiologically at 5 different daily dosages of baclofen: (a) 80 mg oral, (b) 80 mg oral/50 microg ITB, (c) 80 mg oral/125 microg ITB, (d) 30 mg oral/125 microg ITB, and (e) 125 microg ITB only.
Case report and literature review.
Case report.
Case report.
An obese 35-year-old man with long-term ASIA A L2 paraplegia, accompanied by a 2-year history of progressive severe fatigue.
Physical examination showed obesity, hypertension, tachycardia, and pitting edema. An echocardiogram showed a 20% ejection fraction, severe dilation, and global hypokinesis in the left ventricle and mild to moderate mitral regurgitation.
Instruments for measuring primary care were reviewed.
Tools were reviewed for population coverage, format, testing of validity and reliability, and inclusion of the attributes of primary care.
Assessment of intraocular pressure, the aspect of optic nerve head and automated perimetry show interpretable values. We assess the head of optic disc and the visual field in both mother and daughter of the patient.
A questionnaire was presented to 400 ophthalmologists with experience in glaucoma management; they have responded anonymously to 32 questions. The obtained data were subject to statistical analysis (mean, standard deviation, statistical significance).
Retrospective chart review of patients admitted in the last 8 years (2000-2007).
Our study includes six patients who presented erythematous scaly plaques and pustules on the eyebrows. The eyebrows hairs were grayish, friable and broken leaving alopecic areas. Direct microscopy of the infected hairs of the eyebrows lesions followed by culture on Sabouraud dextrose agar were effectuated in every patient at the beginning, during and the end of treatment.
A study has been undertaken in two centers. The first one, which was a prospective observational one, went on for 20 months and included the patients operated with pterygium in the Ophthalmology Clinic in TgMures, RO. Two surgical techniques have been used: limbo-conjunctival autografting and the Arlt technique. The results of the two methods have been followed and compared, as well as the intra and post-surgery complications. The second study, a retrospective observational type of study, went on for 15 months and included the patients operated with pterygium in the Ophthalmology clinic in Debrecen, Hungary. We used 4 methods to treat the pterygium: the Arlt method, the McReynolds method, the sclero-corneal lamellar plasty and the limbo-conjunctival autografting. We analysed the obtained results using all these 4 methods.
The participants were 176 offspring, ages 7-25, of parents who died by suicide, accident, or sudden natural death. They were assessed 9 and 21 months after the death, along with 168 nonbereaved subjects.
Fifty-five clinically stable schizophrenia subjects were randomly assigned to either 50 hours of computerized auditory training or a control condition using computer games. Those receiving auditory training engaged in daily computerized exercises that placed implicit, increasing demands on auditory perception through progressively more difficult auditory-verbal working memory and verbal learning tasks.
At total of 413 youths (ages 7-17 years) with bipolar I disorder (N=244), bipolar II disorder (N=28), and bipolar disorder not otherwise specified (N=141) were enrolled in the study. Symptoms were ascertained retrospectively on average every 9.4 months for 4 years using the Longitudinal Interval Follow-Up Evaluation. Rates and time to recovery and recurrence and week-by-week symptomatic status were analyzed.
The UCSD Performance-Based Skills Assessment-Brief Version (UPSA-B) and a neuropsychological assessment were administered to schizophrenia patients living in rural areas in Sweden (N=146) and in the New York City area (N=244), and patients' functioning was rated by their case managers. Information from records and case managers was used to determine the frequency of living independently, working, and having ever experienced a stable romantic relationship.
Young children living in institutions in Bucharest were enrolled when they were between 6 and 30 months of age. Following baseline assessment, 136 children were randomly assigned to care as usual (continued institutional care) or to removal and placement in foster care that was created as part of the study. Psychiatric disorders, symptoms, and comorbidity were examined by structured psychiatric interviews of caregivers of 52 children receiving care as usual and 59 children in foster care when the children were 54 months of age. Both groups were compared to 59 typically developing, never-institutionalized Romanian children recruited from pediatric clinics in Bucharest. Foster care was created and supported by social workers in Bucharest who received regular consultation from U.S. clinicians.
The normal expression levels of mGluR2, mGluR3, and GCP II were determined for 10 regions of the postmortem human brain using specific antibodies. Differences in expression levels of each protein were examined in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, temporal cortex, and motor cortex in 15 postmortem schizophrenia subjects and 15 postmortem matched normal comparison subjects. Chronic antipsychotic treatment in rodents was conducted to examine the potential effect of antipsychotic drugs on expression of the three proteins.
The 154 samples from patients with asthma and their parents answered to two questionnaires at regular visits. At the same time, respiratory function and FENO were measured. The patients were divided into two groups according to the control levels defined by JPAC and C-ACT. The correlation of each total scores and respiratory function and FENO were examined.
To evaluate allergic reactions to local anesthetics, challenge tests were performed in 20 patients who had a history of adverse events to local anesthetics for whom dental treatment was planned. The diagnostic protocol of this challenge test consisted of skin prick and intracutaneous tests, as well as subsequent incremental subcutaneous challenge tests with local anesthetics such as lidocaine.
Rate constants of artemisinin, bupropion, propofol and efavirenz metabolism by human liver microsomes from a panel of 12 donors, with different levels of CYP2B6 activity, were estimated in WinNonlin. Correlations between the metabolic rate constant for artemisinin and the other CYP2B6 substrates were examined.
Vascular calcification was quantitatively evaluated using radiographic films of the abdomen, pelvis and hands. Plasma fetuin-A and other parameters related to calcification were examined.
2,230 permanent silicone dual catheters implanted in 1,749 patients between November 1982 and November 2005 were studied. The following data were collected at the time of catheter implantation: presence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, obesity, atherosclerosis, immunodepression, Wright-Khan index, site and side of catheter insertion, and history of bacteremia.
In a prospective cohort study, 126 patients undergoing maintenance HD using conventional dialysate (CD) with one endotoxin cut filter were assigned to either continuation of the same HD or HD using UD (more purified dialysate). At baseline and 6 months we measured lipids, high-sensitive (hs)CRP, oxidative LDL-cholesterol, and myeloperoxidase.
Forty-six ABO-compatible recipients of living-related liver transplants operated on in Osaka University hospital were retrospectively studied.
We measured concentrations of circulating and interstitial macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9)/neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) in 10 patients on HDF or high-flux HD and 11 healthy subjects by using immunoassay.
Blood and peritoneal dialysate samples were collected from 10 patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis who were given 100 mg iron sucrose (IS) intravenously. Systemic and peritoneal permeability as well as transperitoneal transport were studied. The effect of spent dialysate was tested in vitro on human peritoneal mesothelial cells (MCs).
We investigated the relationship between ECW/TBW by BIS and cardiac troponin T (cTnT) level, a biochemical surrogate of CV mortality.
Peritoneal cytokine and growth factor levels were determined during the peritoneal equilibration test (PET). Ultrafiltration, peritoneal clearance and residual renal function were also considered.
226 subjects admitted to the hospital for CAD, 358 consecutive newborn infants, 279 adult subjects with type 2 diabetes without CAD and 137 adults without diabetes and without CAD from the Caucasian population of Rome were studied. The ACP1 genotype was determined by DNA analysis. Statistical analyses were performed using the SPSS package.
We studied 164 patients with nonbifurcated LMCA lesions (group A) and 96 patients with distal bifurcated lesions (group B).
Utilizing high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection, we determined blood plasma levels of serotonin (5-hydroxy-triptamine, [5-HT](p)), 5- hydroxy-indole-acetic acid ([5-HIAA](p)), epinephrine ([E](p)), norepinephrine ([NE](p)), 3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenyl-alanine ([DOPA](p)), dopamine ([DA](p)) and the platelet concentration of serotonin ([5-HT](pt)) in CHF patients with different morphofunctional alterations of myocardium. The morphofunctional alterations included diastolic dysfunction (DD), diastolic dysfunction with left ventricular hypertrophy (DD&amp;LVH), and diastolic and systolic dysfunction (D&amp;SD).
Cardiac fibroblasts (CF) from rabbits with surgically induced AR and matched controls (NL) were cultured and assayed for FN expression and kinase activity with and without inhibitors of kinases JNK, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular response kinase (ERK). NL CF also were subjected to cyclic strain mimicking AR for 24 h in culture with and without inhibitors.
The ability of peptides to bind and inhibit eIF4E was determined by immunoprecipitation and by assaying cap-dependent reporter synthesis. To target ovarian tumors, the lead candidate 4EBP peptide was fused to an analog of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Cellular uptake of peptide, and effects on cell viability and cell death were determined. The antitumor activity of fusion peptide was evaluated in female nude mice bearing i.p. ovarian tumor xenografts.
In this phase I/II two-arm clinical trial, 50 patients with myeloma received autografts after high-dose melphalan followed by infusions of ex-T at day +2 after transplant. Patients also received pretransplant and posttransplant immunizations using a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine only (arm B; n = 24) or the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine plus an HLA-A2-restricted microltipeptide vaccine for HLA-A2(+) patients (arm A; n = 26).
Nonantigen specific T cells loaded with reovirus were delivered i.v. to C57BL/6 and severe combined immunodeficient mice bearing lymph node and splenic metastases from the murine melanoma, B16ova, with assessment of viral replication, metastatic clearance by tumor colony outgrowth, and immune priming. Human cytotoxic lymphocyte priming assays were done with dendritic cells loaded with Mel888 cells before the addition of reovirus.
The role of CTR2 was examined by knocking down CTR2 expression in an isogenic pair of mouse embryo fibroblasts consisting of a CTR1(+/+) line and a CTR1(-/-) line in which both CTR1 alleles had been deleted. CTR2 levels were determined by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and Western blot analysis. Cisplatin (DDP) was quantified by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and (64)Cu and [(14)C]carboplatin (CBDCA) accumulation by gamma and scintillation counting.
A total of 85 melanomas arising from sun-protected (n = 23) and sun-exposed sites (n = 62) were analyzed for copy number changes using array-based comparative genomic hybridization and for gain-of-function mutations in BRAF, NRAS, and KIT.
Here, we report an electrochemical (EC) sensor for oral cancer detection based on the simultaneous detection of two salivary biomarkers: interleukin (IL)-8 mRNA and IL-8 protein.
Cytotoxic effects were evaluated in human small cell lung cancer cell lines [H69, H82, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-secreting cells (SBC-3/VEGF and its mock transfectant SBC-3/Neo)]. In vivo antitumor effects were evaluated in SBC-3/Neo-bearing and SBC-3/VEGF-bearing mice after NK012/CDDP or CPT-11/CDDP administration on days 0, 7, and 14. Drug distribution was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography or fluorescence microscopy, and the small intestine was pathologically examined.
We evaluated immunohistochemical expression of DBC1, SIRT1, and p53 using 3-mm tumor cores from 177 gastric cancer patients for tissue microarray.
The prevalence of stereotyped BCR was compared in RS (n = 69) versus nontransformed CLL (n = 714) by a case-control analysis. Subsequently, the effect of stereotyped BCR at CLL diagnosis on risk of RS transformation was actuarially assessed in a consecutive CLL series (n = 753).
First, the association between Runx2 and prostate cancer progression was assessed using localized prostate cancer specimens and mechanistic investigation of Runx2-induced cancer aggressiveness was then carried out. Subsequently, the effect of FTY720 on Runx2 expression and transcriptional activity was investigated using PC-3 cells, which highly expressed Runx2 protein. Last, the involvement of Runx2 in FTY720-induced anticancer effects was evaluated by modulating Runx2 expression in various prostate cancer cell lines.
Two IgG MGUS populations were evaluated: a training sample (553 patients) and a test sample (378 patients); the IgA MGUS population consisted of 352 patients.
We analyzed 113 tumor samples for CD133/1 expression by flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR. CD133(+) cells were isolated and used to assess phenotypic characteristics, self-renewal capacity, ability to maintain CD133 expression and form sphere-like structures in long-term cultures, sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents, gene expression profile, and ability to initiate tumors in NOD/SCID mice.
We generated CD4(+) T cell clones from patient C2, who had the highest CD4(+) T cell response to the vaccine, and analyzed their fine specificity and HLA class II restriction to determine the recognized epitope. We then assessed the response to the identified epitope in all vaccinated patients expressing the corresponding HLA class II allele.
EphA2 expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in tissue microarray format using surgically resected NSCLC specimens (n = 279). EGFR and K-Ras mutation status was determined for most specimens. The correlation between EphA2 expression and EGFR or K-Ras mutation status was examined, along with several clinicopathologic variables of the tumors. The effects of increasing EGFR and K-Ras activity on EphA2 expression and activity were examined in two cell lines.
We searched for all clinical trials that prospectively evaluated the efficacy of gefitinib for advanced non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations in Japan. We did a combined analysis based on individual patient data from the identified trials.
In part 1, patients received carboplatin on day 1 and topotecan on days 1, 2, and 3 (C--&gt;T schedule). In part 2, topotecan was administered on days 1, 2, and 3, followed by carboplatin on day 3 (T--&gt;C schedule). Pharmacokinetics were determined in plasma and DNA topoisomerase I catalytic activity and Pt-DNA adducts in WBC and tumor tissue.
To investigate met as a biomarker of disease progression, urinary met was evaluated via ELISA in men with localized (n = 75) and metastatic (n = 81) prostate cancer. Boxplot analysis was used to compare the distribution of met values between each group. We estimated a receiver operating characteristic curve and the associated area under the curve to summarize the diagnostic accuracy of met for distinguishing between localized and metastatic disease. Protein-protein interaction networking via yeast two-hybrid technology supplemented by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and Human Interactome was used to elucidate proteins and pathways related to met that may contribute to progression of disease.
Flow cytometry was used to identify phenotypic differences in B cells from patients with melanoma and normal donors. In vitro stimulated B cells were assessed for responsiveness and also used as stimulators of allogeneic T cells in mixed lymphocyte reactions.
We used the HPV16 E6- and E7-expressing TC-1 mouse tumor model to study the effect of TAM on T-cell function in vitro, and depleted TAM, using clodronate-containing liposomes, to characterize its role in vivo.
Basal cell carcinoma lesions were either treated with PDT or surgically removed. Blood was collected from patients immediately before or 7 to 10 days following treatment. Peripheral blood leukocytes were isolated from HLA-A2-expressing patients and reactivity to a HLA-A2-restricted Hip1 peptide was measured by INF-gamma ELISpot assay.
DC functions and expression patterns of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in DCs were evaluated in a ret transgenic murine cutaneous melanoma model, which shows high similarity to human cutaneous melanoma with respect to clinical development. In contrast to transplantation melanoma models (like B16), this model allows the study of melanoma progression under conditions of natural interactions between tumor and host cells over time.
Patients had CEA of 10 to 1,000 microg/L, QTc &lt; or =450 ms, no cardiac arrhythmia/ischaemia, and adequate hematology/biochemistry. Tumor was suitable for blood flow analysis by dynamic contrast enhanced-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The starting dose was 1,800 MBq/m(2) of (131)I-A5B7 on day 1 and 45 mg/m(2) CA4P given 48 and 72 hours post-(131)I-A5B7, then weekly for up to seven weeks.
Gene expression was examined using microarray screening, reverse transcription-PCR, and real-time quantitative PCR. DNA methylation was examined using bisulfite PCR, bisulfite sequencing, and bisulfite pyrosequencing in 14 multiple myeloma cell lines, 87 multiple myeloma specimens, and 12 control bone marrow samples. WST-8 assays were used to assess cell viability after treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and/or dexamethasone.
Among 602 colon cancer patients (stage I-IV) in two prospective cohort studies, cyclin D1 overexpression was detected in 330 (55%) tumors by immunohistochemistry. Cox proportional hazard models computed hazard ratios (HR) of colon cancer-specific and overall mortalities, adjusted for patient characteristics and tumoral molecular features, including p53, p21, p27, cyclooxygenase-2, fatty acid synthase, LINE-1 methylation, CpG island methylator phenotype, MSI, BMI, KRAS, and BRAF.
Seventy-six metastatic colorectal cancer patients receiving cetuximab plus FOLFIRI or FOLFOX-4 chemotherapy were enrolled. KRAS mutation status in the peripheral blood of these patients was analyzed using membrane-arrays, and KRAS mutation status in tumors was analyzed by DNA sequencing.
We determined an in vitro cytotoxicity of IT-101, CPT-11, and their metabolites against multiple human lymphoma cell lines. In human lymphoma xenografts, the pharmacokinetics, inhibitions of tumor DNA topo I catalytic activity, and antilymphoma activities of these compounds were evaluated.
Examples based on a soft tissue sarcoma phase II trial, which includes multiple histologies and simulation studies, are used to assess the statistical properties of the proposed strategy.
The efficacy and neurotoxicity of Ad-TK+GCV was compared with Ads encoding the proapoptotic cytokines [tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing factor (TRAIL), and Fas ligand (FasL)], alone or in combination with Ad-Flt3L. In rats bearing small GBMs (day 4), only Ad-TK+GCV or Ad-FasL improved survival.
Contact lenses were incubated in a source solution containing timolol maleate or brimonidine tartrate to determine uptake kinetics. The lenses were then immersed in fresh saline to determine release kinetics. Analysis was performed by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). HPLC column retention times were determined for drugs released from the lens individually and under co-elution conditions. To evaluate clinical feasibility and toxicity, three volunteers (patients being treated for glaucoma) were provided with contact lenses that had been passively impregnated with either drug. After a three-week wash-out period, the volunteers were instructed to wear the lenses for 30 minutes per day for two weeks.
Sixty-four patients with trachomatous dry eye with a Schirmer test showing 5 mm or less and a tear film break-up time (TFBUT) of five seconds or less were included. Thirty-two patients were treated with twice daily application of CsA (0.05% ophthalmic emulsion) plus non-preserved artificial tears, while the remaining 32 patients serving as controls received only non-preserved artificial tears. CT was measured using ultrasonic pachymetry at five locations of the central (CCT) and mid-peripheral cornea, at baseline and after one, three and six months of treatment.
We examined a compound heterozygote carrier of both protanopia and deuteranomaly. We also examined male members of her family representing both forms of red-green defect carried by the female proband. Complete colour vision testing was done, including Rayleigh matches, pseudoisochromatic plates, unique hue measurements and 100-Hue tests. Flicker-photometric ERG estimates of L : M cone ratio were obtained, as were Medmont C100 settings.
Expert members of the profession and representatives from schools of optometry, registration boards in Australia, state divisions of Optometrists Association Australia and the New Zealand Association of Optometrists were consulted in the process of updating the standards.
On May 17, 2008, data were downloaded from the Stapled Transanal Resection Registry to perform an analysis of 12-month outcomes. Data had been collected prospectively on effectiveness (symptom severity and obstructed defecation scores), quality of life, incontinence, and safety profile at baseline, 6 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months.
Between January 1999 and December 2006, 185 patients had surgery for rectal cancer; 103 these patients had mid and low rectal cancer. The source of data was inpatient/outpatient medical records. Telephone interviews were conducted for all patients. Actuarial survival was calculated with use of the Kaplan-Meier method.
A retrospective review of a prospective database was performed. Patient demographics, cancer and operative details, intent, margins, lymph node status, rerecurrence at resection site, follow-up, living and death details were assessed.
This was a prospective study of 15 patients with sphincter defects (9 combined, 2 external only, and 4 internal only) undergoing sacral nerve stimulation for fecal incontinence. Endoanal ultrasound scans were reviewed and defects scored (0-16) with use of a system published by two independent observers. These were correlated with the following outcomes: 1) reduction in fecal incontinence episodes, 2) reduction in soiling, 3) improvement in Cleveland Clinic scores, and 4) improvement in ability to defer defecation. All patients were studied after temporary stimulation and again at three to six months after permanent implantation.
Patients undergoing elective laparoscopic colorectal resection who met the inclusion criteria were invited to participate in the study. A specific preoperative, anesthetic, and postoperative protocol was used. Patients were discharged 23 hours after the start of surgery. Follow-up was by telephone contact on the evening of the day of discharge with outpatient follow-up at Day 3.
Three hundred and sixty-two Stage III consecutive cases were analyzed based on quartiles: lymph node ratio 1 (&gt;0 and &lt;0.06); lymph node ratio 2 (between 0.06 and 0.12); lymph node ratio 3 (&gt;0.12 and &lt;0.25); lymph node ratio 4 (&gt;or=0.25).
Consecutive patients with an adenocarcinoma of the rectum who underwent surgery at Maastricht University Medical Center or VieCuri Medical Center between 2003 and 2005 were included in this study. Data on surgical treatment and complications were collected. Severe postoperative complications were classified according to a standardized complication severity score. Quality of life was assessed by use of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer core and colorectal cancer-specific quality-of-life questionnaires.
Data were obtained from four national polyposis registries. On the basis of previously described genotype-phenotype correlations, patients were divided into three genotype groups predicting attenuated, intermediate, and severe polyposis phenotypes. Cumulative risks of secondary proctectomy and rectal cancer after primary colectomy were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
We selected a consecutive series of 1,791 histopathologically completely resected colorectal cancer patients without neoadjuvant therapy from a prospective database from 1981 through 2006. Median follow-up was 4.7 (range, 0-23) years with only 3.1% patients lost. Cause-specific and relative survival are reported as failure rates as is the cumulative incidence in the presence of competing risks.
Patients over the age of 50 years who had surgery for colon or rectal cancer at the Mount Sinai Hospital between 1997 and 2006 were identified. Data were obtained from a colorectal cancer database and from office and hospital records. Patients were assigned to two groups: 50 to 74 years old and 75 years and older.
The 201 lymph nodes available from 31 patients with ypT0-2 rectal cancer were reviewed and measured. Lymph nodes were compared according to the presence of metastases and size.
Three hundred seventeen patients undergoing ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and 63 undergoing continent ileostomy were evaluated in a prospective observational study. Median observation time was 10.6 (range, 1-23) years for patients who underwent ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and 14 (1-24) years for those who underwent continent ileostomy.
Gracilis muscle transposition for recurrent rectovaginal fistula was performed in eight patients. Causes of fistulas included Crohn's disease (n = 5), perineal surgery (n = 2), and obstetrical injury (n = 1). All patients underwent a mean of three (range, 1-6) previous repairs. Fecal diversion was performed in all cases.
This is a single-institutional prospective observational study.
Cases were identified from two large population-based case-control studies of colon cancer and rectal cancer. We sequenced Exons 5 to 8 of the p53 gene and Codons 12 and 13 of the Ki-ras gene to identify tumor mutations. Microsatellite instability was determined based on BAT26 and TGFbetaRII analysis; CpG island methylator phenotype was determined based on having two or more of the following markers methylated p16, MLH1, MINT1, MINT2, and MINT31.
Peritoneal lavage was performed in 697 patients undergoing curative resection of colorectal cancer. Before the manipulation of the tumor, 100 mL of physiologic saline solution was administered into the abdominal cavity and the fluid was collected for cytologic examination. Specimens were classified as positive if at least one cancer cell was detected.
Forty-five virgin female Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allotted to three groups: controls (n = 21), sphincterotomy (n = 12), and pudendal nerve transection (n = 12). Anal pressure was monitored using a saline-filled balloon connected to a pressure transducer. Anal pressure and electromyography of the anal sphincter with use of a needle electrode were recorded both before and after injury or succinylcholine administration.
Serum was collected from 161 patients with colorectal cancer and 26 healthy volunteers. Cancer tissue was collected from 128 patients. The level of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 in serum and cancer tissue was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
This is a single-center, prospective study. The primary aim of this study was to investigate whether adenoma detection rates differed between procedures with or without trainee involvement. A total of 368 consecutive patients entered the analysis (181 with trainee participation and 187 without).
A PubMed search was performed for publications between 1990 and May 2008. The terms acute, perforated, diverticulitis, lavage, drainage, and laparoscopy were used in combination. The EMBASE and Cochrane databases were also searched.
Between 2004 and 2007 sera of 1323 10-years old children in Baden Württemberg were tested in-vitro for specific IgE-antibodies against common aeroallergens including ragweed pollen.
A 44-year-old woman was referred to the emergency department for acute paraumbilical abdominal pain with colics. 5 days previously, a tooth extraction had been performed and postoperatively ibuprofen had been prescribed for pain relief. The medical history was empty besides a penicillin allergy and two caesarean sections 20 and 21 years ago.
The physical examination revealed paraumbilical pain on palpation. Abdominal ultrasound could identify some free fluid and an aperistaltic intestinal loop as well as an echo-rich structure in the hypogastric region. An abdominal CT scan showed a hypodense tubular structure of 6.5 x 3.3 cm indicating a possible ischaemic intestinal segment, and a dilated intestinal loop as well as an uterus myomatosis. Due to therapy refractory symptoms and increasing leucocytes on the second day after admission, a diagnostic laparoscopy was performed.
Intraoperatively, a volvulus of the ileum as well as an adhesive strangulation of the small intestine could be identified.
Consecutively, surgery with an ileocoecal resection and a side-to-side ileotransversostomy was performed. Within a few days, the patient recovered completely and resumed normal activities of daily living.
Twenty adult CI users were evaluated on an objective test of speech recognition in noise (Bamford-Kowal-Bench Sentences in Noise [BKB-SIN] test) and a measure of noise tolerance (Acceptable Noise Level [ANL] test) and completed a self-report measure of communication difficulty (Abbreviated Profile of Hearing Aid Benefit [APHAB]). Relationships between BKB-SIN scores, ANL scores, and aided APHAB scores for the ease of communication, background noise, reverberation, and Global scales were assessed. In addition, BKB-SIN scores and ANL scores for the CI users were compared with scores for a control group of 23 NH listeners.
Thresholds from 25 listeners were obtained using pulsed, warbled, and pulsed-warbled tones at test frequencies recommended by ASHA.
ER measurements at ambient pressure were made on five human cadaver ears in three conditions: (1) baseline with intact ossicular chain, (2) with the ossicular chain cut using an argon laser, and (3) with the ossicular chain repaired. Laser Doppler vibrometry measurements of stapes footplate velocity were also made in the three conditions to monitor the effect of the experimental manipulations on sound transfer through the middle ear.
The investigation entailed a randomized, repeated-measures design of 15 older adults (59 to 82 yr) with bilateral sensorineural hearing losses who wore HAs. Participants viewed three types of televised programs (news, drama, and game show) that were each edited into lists of speech segments and provided an identification response. Each participant was tested in four conditions: baseline (no HA or CC), HA only, CC only, and HA + CC. Also, pilot testing with young normal-hearing listeners was conducted to establish list equivalence and stimulus intelligibility with a control group. All testing was conducted in a quiet room to simulate a living room, using a 20 in flat screen television. Questionnaires were also administered to participants to determine the frequency of HA and CC use while watching television.
Existing data from more than 1200 ears were used to analyze BCR as a function of Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) level. These data were selected because both audiometric and DPOAE data were available on every ear. Although these data were not obtained in newborns, this compromise was necessary because audiometric outcomes (especially in infants with congenital hearing loss) in neonates are either lacking or limited in number. As such, it is important to note that the characteristics of responses from the group of subjects that formed the bases of the present analyses are different from those for neonates. This limits the extent to which actual criterion levels can be selected but should not affect the general approach of using BCR as a framework for considering UNHS criteria. Estimates of the prevalence of congenital hearing loss identified through UNHS in 37 states and U.S. territories in 2004 were used to calculate BCR. A range of estimates for the lifetime monetary benefits and yearly costs for UNHS were used, based on data available in the literature. Still, exact benefits and costs are difficult to know. Both one-step (DPOAE alone) and two-step (DPOAE followed by automated auditory brainstem response, AABR) screening paradigms were considered in the calculation of BCR. The influence of middle ear effusion was simulated by incorporating a range of expected DPOAE level reductions into an additional BCR analyses
Participants were 17 native English speaking adults with postlingual deafness. All subjects received the Nucleus 24 Contour implant in both ears, either during the same surgery or during two separate surgeries that were no more than 1 mo apart. Both devices for each subject were activated at the same time, regardless of surgical approach. Speech intelligibility was measured at 3 and 6 mo after activation. Target speech was presented at 0 degrees in front. Testing was conducted in quiet and in the presence of four-talker babble. The babble was located on the right, on the left, or in front (colocated with the target). Sound localization abilities were measured at the 3 mo interval. All testing was conducted under three listening modes: left ear alone, right ear alone, or bilateral.
Forty-two cochlear implant subjects were recruited from the University of Washington Medical Center cochlear implant program and referred by two implant manufacturers. Ten normal-hearing volunteers were drawn from the University of Washington Medical Center and associated campuses. A computer-driven, self-administered test was developed to examine three specific aspects of music perception: pitch direction discrimination, melody recognition, and timbre recognition. The pitch subtest used an adaptive procedure to determine just-noticeable differences for complex tone pitch direction discrimination within the range of 1 to 12 semitones. The melody and timbre subtests assessed recognition of 12 commonly known melodies played with complex tones in an isochronous manner and eight musical instruments playing an identical five-note sequence, respectively. Testing was repeated for cochlear implant subjects to evaluate test-retest reliability. Normal-hearing volunteers were also tested to demonstrate differences in performance in the two populations.
Forty-eight participants who had at least a high school education and who hold salaried positions participated in one of seven focus groups. Participants first answered questions about a hypothetical executive who had hearing loss and considered how she might react to various communication issues. They then addressed questions about their own work-related predicaments. The sessions were audiovideo recorded and later transcribed for analysis.
The Spatial Hearing Questionnaire, composed of 24 items, is scored from 0 to 100. It was administered to 142 subjects using one or two cochlear implants. Speech perception and localization abilities were measured, and the Speech, Spatial, and Other Qualities questionnaire was completed to evaluate validity of the questionnaire. Psychometric tests were performed to test the reliability and factor structure of the Spatial Hearing Questionnaire.
A total of 102 (67 trained musicians, 35 nonmusicians) right-handed young women with normal hearing participated in three auditory stimulus conditions: pure tones (25 musicians/15 nonmusicians), harmonic tones (42 musicians/20 nonmusicians), and speech syllables (26 musicians/15 nonmusicians). Pure tone and harmonic tone stimuli were presented in multideviant oddball paradigms designed to elicit MMN and P3a. Each paradigm included one standard and two infrequently occurring deviants. For the pure tone condition, the standard pure tone was 1000 Hz, and the two deviant tones differed in frequency from the standard by either 1.5% (1015 Hz) or 6% (1060 Hz). The harmonic tone complexes were digitally created and contained a fundamental frequency (F0) and three harmonics. The amplitude of each harmonic was divided by its harmonic number to create a natural amplitude contour in the frequency spectrum. The standard tone was G4 (F0 = 392 Hz), and the two deviant tones differed in fundamental frequency from the standard by 1.5% (F0 = 386 Hz) or 6% (F0 = 370 Hz). The fundamental frequencies of the harmonic tones occur within the average female vocal range. The third condition to elicit MMN and P3a was designed for the presentation of speech syllables (/ba/ and /da/) and was structured as a traditional oddball paradigm (one standard/one infrequent deviant). Each speech stimulus was presented as a standard and a deviant in separate blocks. P1-N1-P2 was elicited before each oddball task by presenting each auditory stimulus alone in single blocks. All cortical auditory evoked potentials were recorded in a passive listening condition.
Core elements of this position paper are the definitions of important terms like monitoring, exposure monitoring, effect monitoring, and integrated monitoring. Moreover, temporal and spatial aspects (monitoring of spatial distributions, trend monitoring, and retrospective monitoring) and their applications are discussed. The main focus of this position paper is the coverage of aspects which have to be observed for the preparation and implementation of a monitoring program. Essential is the clear specification of the targets of the monitoring which determine the development of the monitoring concept and its realization, e.g., if environmental media (compartments) or organisms are most appropriate as samples for the aim of the study. Of course, also the properties of the target substances are important (e.g., lipophilicity/bioaccumulation as pre-requisite for an exposure monitoring with organisms). Finally, the monitoring phases of sample planning, sampling, storage and transport of samples, selection of analytical methods, quality assurance measures as well as reporting are discussed.
This study was conducted to investigate the environmental behavior and long-term trends of toxic metals in Seoul and Busan, the two most populated cities of Korea, from 1991 to 2004. To this end, the concentrations of five toxic metals (including Pb, Cd, Cr, Mn, and Ni) in TSP (total suspended particle) fractions were measured by atomic absorption spectrometry. The analysis of long-term patterns of metal concentration data was conducted using two different temporal grouping criteria for both the full study period (1991-2004) and the second half (1998-2004). The statistical significance of such variabilities was assessed through a comparison with relevant reference data from other areas of the world.
The sorption-desorption of acetochlor, using the batch equilibration method, was studied on eight surface soils, one subsurface soil and five sediments collected from the Laborec River and three water reservoirs. Soils and sediments were characterized by commonly used methods for their total organic carbon content, distribution of humus components, pH, grain-size distribution, and smectite content, and for calcium carbonate content. The effect of soil/sediment characteristics on acetochlor sorption-desorption was examined by simple correlation analysis.
To address these questions, we have used the CALUX AhR agonist bioassay and the Comet genotoxicity bioassay with RTL-W1 cells to evaluate the toxic potential of different extracts from a PAH-contaminated soil undergoing large-scale bioremediation. The extracts were also chemically analyzed for PAH16 and PCDD/PCDF. Soil sampled on five occasions between day 0 and day 274 of biological treatment was shaken with n-butanol with vortex mixing at room temperature to determine the bioavailable fraction of contaminants. To establish total concentrations, parts of the same samples were extracted using an accelerated solvent extractor (ASE) with toluene at 100 degrees C. The extracts were tested as inducers of AhR-dependent luciferase activity in the CALUX assay and for DNA breakage potential in the Comet bioassay.
The occurrence of the antihistamines cetirizine, acrivastine, fexofenadine, loratadine, desloratadine and ebastine in sewage treatment plants wastewaters and in recipient river waters was studied. The analytical procedure consisted of solid-phase extraction of the water samples followed by liquid chromatography separation and detection by a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer in the multiple reaction mode.
Element loads of arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), chromium (Cr), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), mercury (Hg), nickel (Ni), lead (Pb), antimony (Sb), vanadium (V) and zinc (Zn) measured in the French campaign 2006 were aggregated to a multi-metal index (MMI). This index was first introduced in the German moss surveys and represents the mean rank of each monitoring site or estimated raster cell regarding all elements referred to. Hence, the spatial variability of the metal bioaccumulation in France could be assessed as a whole. A comparison of the MMI map with the spatial patterns of the Cu loads in mosses was then drawn, as Cu originates to a large extent from urban sources. Applying CHAID, the MMI and the Cu loads in the mosses were further investigated with regard to confounding factors. The said results were discussed on the basis of recent scientific publications.
The improved heavy metal resistance also makes the investigated tobacco clones interesting for understanding the plant defense enzyme system in general. Freshly harvested plant material (N. tabacum leaves) was used to investigate the antioxidative cascade in plants grown on heavy metal contaminated sites with and without amendments of different ammonium nitrate and ammonium sulfate fertilizers.
Plants were grown on heavily polluted soils in north-east Switzerland. Leaves were harvested at the field site and directly deep frozen in liquid N(2). Studies were concentrated on the antioxidative enzymes of the Halliwell-Asada cycle, and spectrophotometric measurements of catalase (CAT, EC 1.11.1.6), ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11), superoxide dismutase (SOD, EC 1.15.1.1), glutathione peroxidase (GPX, EC 1.11.1.9), glutathione reductase (GR, EC 1.6.4.2), glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) were performed.
This article is based on a secondary analysis of findings and perspectives reported in the literature and on the methods of qualitative social empirical research, i.e., interviews with experts. A total number of 34 interviews were conducted to explore the different strategies of handling non-knowledge and constructing evidence. Actors from science, administration, business and NGOs were interviewed. In this way, typical epistemic cultures can be described. An epistemic culture is the constellation of methodological strategies, theoretical assumptions and practical-experimental settings which define in every speciality the ways how we know what we know.
We based our review on classical and recent findings from the fields of biogeochemistry and microbial ecology, highlighting some odd results from highly humic Brazilian tropical lagoons, which can reach up to 160 mg C L(-1).
The potential of HYP to generate AOX was determined in laboratory-scale experiments. Different model solutions were treated with HYP according to disinfection processes in viticulture and conditions of AOX formation in effluents were simulated. AOX were quantified using the flask-shaking method and identified DBPs were investigated by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
The yeast estrogen screen (YES) was adapted so that toxicity and estrogenicity could be quantified simultaneously in one experimental run. Mercury, two organic solvents (dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and 2,4-dinitroaniline), a surfactant (LAS-12) and the antibiotic cycloheximide were selected as toxic but non-estrogenic test chemicals. The confounding impact of selected concentrations of these toxicants on the estrogenic activity of the hormone 17ss-estradiol was determined by co-incubation experiments. In a second step, the impact of toxic masking and synergistic modulation on the predictability of the joint action of 17ss-estradiol, estrone and estriol mixtures by concentration addition was analysed.
No geological exogenic force has altered the earth's surface during the last centuries in such an extent as human activity. Humans have altered the morphology and element balances of the earth by establishing agrosystems first and urban systems later. Currently, urban systems happen to become the main regulators for fluxes of many elements on a global scale due to ongoing industrial and economic development and a growing number of inhabitants. Additionally, urban systems are constantly expanding and cover more and more former natural and agricultural areas. For nature, urban systems are new phenomena, which never existed in previous geological eras. The process of the globe's urbanization concurrently is active with the global climate change. In fact, urban systems are a major emitter for climate active gases. Thus, beside the global changes in economy and society, urbanization is an important factor within the global change of nature as is already accepted for climate, ecosystems, and biodiversity.
Insertion of intravascular catheters is a commonly performed procedure in neonatal and pediatric intensive care units. However, significant iatrogenic injuries to the peripheral vascular system can occur. Management ranges from anticoagulation and thrombolytics to surgical intervention. In this case, surgical therapy involved thrombectomy and microsurgical reconstruction of the femoral artery.
Simulations with a 3-dimensional computer model of the vibrating vocal folds.
Speech recordings of 51 patients (6 months after reconstructive surgery and postoperative radiotherapy for oral or oropharyngeal cancer) and of 18 control speakers were subjectively evaluated regarding intelligibility, nasal resonance, articulation, and patient-reported speech outcome (speech subscale of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35 module). Acoustic-phonetic analyses were performed to calculate formant values of the vowels /a, i, u/, vowel space, air pressure release of /k/ and spectral slope of /x/.
We set up an experimental model to evaluate the use of adoptively transferred cytotoxic CD1d-restricted T cells and alpha-GalCer in the treatment of mice engrafted with CD1d(+) lymphoid neoplastic cells. To this end the C1R cell line was transfected with CD1c or CD1d molecules. In addition, upon retroviral infection firefly luciferase was expressed on C1R transfected cell lines allowing the evaluation of tumor growth in xenografted immunodeficient NOD/SCID mice.
We retrospectively analyzed 452 adult acute leukemia patients diagnosed according to French-American-British (FAB) classification and biphenotypic acute leukemia diagnosed according to European Group for the Immunological Characterization of Leukemias (EGIL) classification, respectively. Biological characteristics, response to treatment, and outcome were examined in biphenotypic acute leukemia patients and compared with that in acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients with complete follow-up profiles diagnosed in the same period.
Twenty-five patients were recruited presenting with myeloid malignancies and treated with a reduced intensity conditioning transplant regimen with graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis comprising in vivo lymphocyte depletion with alemtuzumab and cyclosporin. A prospective study was performed of lymphocyte subset reconstitution in peripheral blood in relation to the incidence of graft-versus-host disease.
In plasma samples from 21 patients with essential thrombocythemia and ten healthy subjects, the levels and the cellular origin of microparticles were determined by flowcytometric analysis, while the microparticle-associated procoagulant activity was measured using a thrombin generation assay.
Conventional or regulatory CD4(+) T cells were isolated with immunomagnetic microbeads based on the expression of CD4 and CD25. The effect of bortezomib on T-cell viability was analyzed by flow cytometry using 7-amino-actinomycin D staining. To investigate the possibility of obtaining an enriched regulatory T-cell population in vitro with the use of bortezomib, CD4(+) T cells were cultured during four weeks in the presence of anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, IL-2 and bortezomib. The phenotype of these long-term cultured cells was studied, analyzing the expression of CD25, CD127 and FOXP3 by flow cytometry, and mRNA levels were determined by RT-PCR. Their suppressive capacity was assessed in co-culture experiments, analyzing proliferation and IFN-gamma and CD40L expression of stimulated responder T cells by flow cytometry.
Effects of flavopiridol were examined in ALK-positive and -negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma cells by means of immunoblotting and immunofluorescence analyses to assess cdk expression and activity, quantitative real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to measure drug-induced changes in transcription, and FACS analyses to monitor changes in proliferation and survival.
We determined the effects of phenoxodiol on plasma membrane electron transport, MTT responses and viability of activated and resting human T cells. In addition, we evaluated the effect of phenoxodiol on the viability of leukemic cell lines and primary myeloid and lymphoid leukemic blasts.
To clarify the clinicopathological characteristics of this malignancy, we analyzed 27 cases of cytogenetically proven dual-hit lymphoma/leukemia.
An ex vivo granulocyte differentiation system was utilized to investigate the role of mammalian target of rapamycin in the regulation of myelopoiesis.
LS was measured by TE in all 165 patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection who underwent liver biopsy consecutively in Fujita Health University Hospital from July 2004 to September 2007.
Of the overall population, 25 142 individuals (8876 males, 16 266 females) participated in health examinations with HCV tests in 2005, and the most commonly associated markers for HCV-positive subjects were explored by multivariate analysis, based on blood biochemical, physical, sphygmomanometric and hematological parameters. Thereafter, the efficiencies of the markers were estimated from a total population of 85 013 individuals (29 502 males, 55 511 females) in 2003-2005.
In a case-control study, virological factors associated with the development of FHB were sought in 50 patients with FH developed by transient hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (FH-T) and 50 with acute self-limited hepatitis B (AHB) who were matched for sex and age. In addition, 12 patients with FH developed by acute exacerbation (AE) of asymptomatic HBV carrier (ASC) (FH-C) were also compared with 12 patients without FH by AE of chronic hepatitis B (AE-C).
We analyzed 297 patients from eight hospitals belonging to the HIV/AIDS Network of Japan.
In an open-label randomized controlled trial, 17 NASH patients with hyperlipidemia received colestimide (3 g/day) for 24 weeks. There were 21 control patients. All patients received lifestyle modification therapy. Efficacy was assessed based on metabolic profile, insulin resistance, transaminases, serum hepatic fibrosis markers, adipokine levels, visceral fat on computed tomography (CT), and the fatty liver grade on CT. NASH patients with moderate to severe steatosis by histology were also evaluated separately.
Three previously reported promoter polymorphisms, T-1993C, T-1514C and G-1499A, were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Two common polymorphisms, T-1993C and T-1514C, were selected for genotyping in 1074 chronic HBV carriers, 310 spontaneously recovered controls and 374 HBV naive controls. Of 1074 HBV carriers, 234 were considered to be asymptomatic carriers and 840 were found to have chronic progressive liver disease including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Haplotypes were constructed for each subject and associations with the susceptibility to persistent HBV infection were estimated by logistic regression.
We retrospectively studied 181 patients with septic shock admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). We defined ischemic hepatitis as having a value of serum aminotransferases equal to or higher than 1000 IU/L. We recorded the age, sex, comorbidity, site of infection, the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score on admission to the ICU, maximum SOFA score and inadequate antibiotic therapy.
Peripheral blood monocytes were isolated from patients with advanced alcoholic cirrhosis (without ongoing bacterial infections) and normal subjects. Cells were left unstimulated or were stimulated with LPS. The abundance of 24 cytokines was measured using a filter-based, arrayed sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the supernatant of cultured monocytes.
We used male KO mice and C57BL6/J (WT) mice fed methionine choline-deficient (MCD)-diet as a steatohepatitis model. Liver histology, hepatic oxidative stress markers, and hepatic gene expression levels were investigated. In addition, Hepa 1-6 cells, a mouse liver cell line, were cultured with or without recombinant adiponectin, and gene expressions were investigated by real-time RT-PCR.
Ultrasonographic examination and color flow imaging were performed using a color Doppler unit (Aplio 50 or XV, Toshiba, Tokyo, Japan) with a 3.5 MHz convex probe. We performed endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) for rectal varices in seven patients and partial splenic arterial embolization (PSE) for hypersplenism in four. We examined color flow images and measured the velocity of blood flow in rectal varices using fast-Fourier transform analysis by CDU in all eleven patients, before and after treatments.
We studied 37 prepubertal children with idiopathic short stature (ISS), comparing children with high-normal BMI (standard deviation scores, SDS 1.23 +/- 0.11, n = 20) and low-normal BMI (SDS -0.93 +/- 0.12, n = 17). The IGF-I response to GH was determined with an abbreviated IGF-I generation test, by measuring serum IGF-I concentrations at baseline and 24 h after the administration of GH (0.033 mg/kg).
201 short SGA children were investigated for four IGF1 gene polymorphisms in the promoter (-G1245A, -841(CA)(n)), intron 2 (+3703(CT)(n)) and 3UTR (+A1830G). Spontaneous growth and growth during GH treatment were studied.
We sequenced all exons including exon-intron boundaries and the promoter region of the HSD11B1 gene. Of 8 polymorphisms identified, we selected 4 common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (g.-19835G&gt;A, g.-19609A&gt;G, g.+27447G&gt;C and g.+27810C&gt;T) based on location, linkage disequilibrium and frequency and which were genotyped in 757 subjects with type 2 diabetes and 644 nondiabetic subjects.
Forty-eight patients with type 1 DM and 26 healthy controls were investigated.
In this longitudinal study we describe the relationship between changes in fasting hormone levels, and forearm cross-sectional fat/muscle area in 54 short children with GHD and 37 short children born SGA during the first 12 months of GH treatment. Mean GH dose was 31.4 microg/kg/day for GHD and 53.2 microg/kg/day for SGA. HOMA2-IR was calculated as a steady-state fasting measure of insulin resistance.
We studied 20 prepubertal children (11 boys and 9 girls), born after a full-term pregnancy with a mean birth weight below 2.8 kg. They were studied at the mean age of 7.3 +/- 0.5 years (range 4-11 years). Their mean height was -1.8 +/- 0.3 SDS and their mean BMI was 0.1 +/- 0.2 SDS at the time of the study. The children were studied on 2 separate occasions, the first under basal conditions, and the second time after s.c. administration of 1 mg/kg of Iplex at 21.00 h. Blood samples for determination of leptin and insulin were obtained every 60 min between 23.00 h and 07.00 h, while the children were sleeping. In each patient, we calculated the leptin and insulin mean area under the curve, both under basal conditions and after the administration of the IGF-I/IGFBP-3 complex.
The F:M ratio of 133 children with CAT (group A, age at diagnosis 2.4-17.7 years) was compared with that of 113 adult CAT patients (group B, age at diagnosis 21-79 years). Group A included 64 prepubertal (aged 2.4-13.2 years, group A1) and 69 pubertal (aged 9.2-17.4, group A2) children.
Sixty-five GH deficient (GHD 1 and 2) and 86 control children were studied. Children in the GHD-1 subgroup (n=33) had low GH values (&lt;10 microg/L) after clonidine and levo-dopa while those in the GHD-2 subgroup (n=32) had normal GH values after pharmacologic provocation but low 24-hour GH secretory rates compared to 187 Normal Statured (NS) children. Of the 86 controls, who underwent IGF-I gen,50 were NS and 36 Short-Statured (SS). Serum IGF-I was measured prior to and daily during hGH administration (hGH 0.033 mg/kg/dayx4 days).
A total of 50 patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) (stage 5)on hemodialysis and 35 healthy individuals who served as controls (C) were evaluated. The 50 CKD patients were divided into two groups: the HD group consisted of 31 patients who received usual care without any physical activity during the hemodialysis sessions, while group HD/Exer included 19 patients who followed a program of physical exercise for six months. Plasma levels of PGE2, 6-Keto-PGF1alpha (the stable derivative of PGI2) and TXB2 (the stable derivative of TXA2) were measured by reliable enzymo-immunoassay methods (EIA) in HD and HD/Exer patients before and after the hemodialysis sessions as well as in the group of C.
This constitutes a prospective study carried out in a tertiary care private hospital and included 15 morbidly obese patients who underwent LSG. The operation was performed through two 12 mm and two 5 mm ports, using the Endo-GIA stapler to create a lesser curve gastric tube over a 36-Fr bougie.
Cross-sectional observational data on diabetes-related resource use were collected from 15,016 individuals with type 2 diabetes within the second wave of International Diabetes Management Practices Study. Mean (SD) annual quantities were determined and predictors of diabetes-related hospitalisations, inpatient days, emergency room visits and absenteeism were investigated using negative binomial regression.
Retrospective analysis based on claims data from the Integrated Healthcare Information Services (IHCIS) National Managed Care Benchmark Database.
OAD use and HbA(1c) testing were analysed for patients with &gt;or= 2 claims indicating diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and &gt;or= 1 90-day OAD treatment period between 1 January, 2000 and 30 June, 2006. Likelihood of HbA(1c) testing was examined using multivariable logistic regression analyses, adjusting for OAD regimen and patients' sociodemographical characteristics.
This observational study included 356 patients with AF undergoing elective pharmacological or electrical cardioversion. Of these patients, 135 were not included based on exclusion criteria and the remaining 221 patients were divided into RAS group (n = 116, 69 male) or non-RAS group (n = 105, 58 male) based on precardioversion use of any RAS blocker.
Medical notes were retrospectively reviewed in patients undergoing brain MRI following referral for cognitive impairment to a memory clinic between January 2004 and June 2008. Patients with AD were graded into four categories of CVD severity based on neuroradiology reports and assessed for behavioural and NPS and activities of daily living using Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) and Bristol Activities of Daily Living (BADL). Frontal lobe symptoms and parkinsonian features were also evaluated.
The cost-effectiveness of atomoxetine for children with ADHD in the UK was compared with treatment alternatives using an economic model with Markov processes. The model evaluated atomoxetine in five patient subgroups according to treatment history and comorbidities precluding stimulants. Incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was calculated and compared between treatment algorithms. The Markov process incorporated 18 health states, representing a range of outcomes across the treatments. Utility values were derived from a survey of 83 parents of children with ADHD, and treatment efficacy and safety were based on a review of controlled clinical trials and literature, and validated by international experts. Costs and outcomes were estimated using Monte Carlo simulation over 1-year.
This observational study enrolled 909 patients with MDD in psychiatric care settings in China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan. Patients were classified as PPS positive (PPS+) or negative (PPS-) based on mean modified Somatic Symptom Inventory scores of &gt;or= 2 or &lt; 2 respectively. The Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) and 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD(17)) determined depression severity; a visual analogue scale (VAS) determined pain severity; and the EuroQoL (EQ-5D) assessed well-being after 3 months observation.
Systematic review.
We searched PubMed (1950-2006), Scopus and Cochrane library for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), examining the clinical effect of balneotherapy (both as a solitary approach and in the context of spa) on various diseases.
Data from peer-reviewed publications (1975-2007) of controlled, crossover design, pharmacodynamic studies on SAD medications in healthy volunteers were analysed. The number of objective psychometrics for each drug/dose level at all time points after dosing, and of instances of statistically significant impairment of cognitive function, enabled calculation of drug-induced cognitive impairment. The magnitude of impairment between drugs was compared using proportional impairment ratios (PIRs).
A comprehensive medical record review was conducted in 155 consecutive hospitalised patients (median age 79.0 years, interquartile range 66.0-86.0). Information was collected on: demographics; clinical characteristics (including medications and their doses); history of anticholinergic-induced adverse effects; and biochemical markers of hepatic and renal function (serum albumin concentrations and estimated glomerular filtration rate, eGFR). The ARS was calculated for each patient using a standard scoring approach and Poisson regression was used for identifying variables associated with the ARS.
We have written this illustrated article to educate junior doctors without any practical experience in using tissue glue.
According to the diagnostic criteria of AOSD, we identified 84 patients between 1990 and 2003. The aim of this study was to analyse the characteristics of AOSD in Turkish patients who were followed-up in a tertiary referral centre.
The study population consisted of 265 patients with RA which were divided into two groups with respect to the presence or absence of consanguinity between their parents. The frequency of parental consanguinity was compared with the general population. The two groups were compared with respect to family history of RA, the age of onset, the age at which RA was diagnosed, duration of the disease, the presence of rheumatoid nodules, vasculitis, serositis and the need for orthopaedic surgery, amyloidosis, the presence and level of rheumatoid factor and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies, erosive changes on radiographs, and the need for anti-tumour necrosis factor therapy.
The extract was obtained from fungal cultivation in Czapek-Dox medium. It was sterilized by filtration through a Millipore membrane, and injected (0.5 mg/mL) intradermally into the skin of rats, which were killed 3, 6, 12, and 24 h after inoculation. Skin specimens were placed in paraffin and stained using hematoxylin and eosin, and toluidine blue, for the evaluation of the inflammatory response, and Sirius red for the quantification of collagen. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) was used for the identification of apoptosis. Tissue reactions were graded and compared over time and compartment.
Using the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) and National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NHAMCS) (1995-2004), a cross-sectional analysis of ambulatory visits in the USA was performed. Outpatients presenting with International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM)-coded diagnoses of tinea unguium, tinea corporis/manuum, tinea pedis, tinea capitis, and tinea cruris were identified. Trends, descriptive epidemiology, and point prevalence estimates for these conditions were determined using stratification and standardization.
This study includes 40 lesions. Bcl-2 and CD10 immunohistochemistry were performed in all cases and the patterns of expression were analyzed.
Screening of the archives of the pathology departments of regional hospitals from 2002 to 2005 was performed. For each patient, clinical and pathologic data were collected. Cases of metastatic, multiple, or relapsing melanoma were excluded.
From December 1995 to December 2007, four patients with ID were followed in the dermatology outpatient clinic of the "Hospital das Clínicas" of the University of São Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, Brazil. Epidemiologic data were collected and dermatologic examination was performed. Patients were submitted to histopathologic, hematologic, virologic, and immunologic investigations.
Two hundred and seven military personnel with cutaneous leishmaniasis, caused by Leishmania major, were treated with glucantime according to the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended protocol. All patients were nonindigenous to the area and had moved from a nonendemic area to a highly endemic area.
A 58-year-old man with bulky metastatic melanoma of the liver was treated with transcatheter arterial infusion of cisplatin and embolization therapy. The patient developed classic signs of TLS within 24 h of chemotherapy, including acute renal failure.
Cross-sectional associations between WBC and metabolic syndrome (MS) defined by revised NCEP criteria for Japanese, Japanese MS (JMS) defined by the Examination Committee for Criteria of Metabolic Syndrome, and diabetes were examined using medical check-up data from 1,880 men and 1,079 women.
Six patients with this syndrome were studied clinically and subjected to MRI neuroimaging; one underwent biopsy of the striatum, and another underwent additional MR spectroscopy at 3.0T and FDG-PET.
Ten female nude rats with MDA-MB 435 xenograft tumors were treated with 1 mg intraperitoneal bevacizumab when tumors reached 1 cm diameter and, for 4 rats, treated again 7 days later. Just before and 24 hours after the first injection of anti-VEGF antibody, the tumors were imaged by dynamic CT scans enhanced with PEG12000-Gen4-triiodo (n = 3 rats) or iohexol (n = 3 rats). The other 4 rats underwent dynamic CT scans enhanced with PEG12000-Gen4-triiodo just before and 24 hours after the second injection of anti-VEGF antibody. Microvascular leakiness (K(PS)) was calculated for the tumors using a 2-compartment tissue model.
We examined groups of 11 healthy preschool-aged children, 10 healthy adolescents, and 10 healthy adults with both, DTI and TMS/ipsilateral silent period (iSP). DTI-values for fractional anisotropy (FA) were calculated for areas I to V of the CC. ISP-values for latency, duration, and extent of electromyography suppression were calculated.
Ewing sarcoma implanted orthotopically into the left thigh of non-obese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice were evaluated with a 9.4 T MR unit by using a specific mouse whole body coil. Transverse T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequences, T1-weighted spin-echo sequences, and transverse echo-planar DWI examinations were performed at baseline, 24 hours and 72 hours after intraperitoneal injection of treosulfan in 2 different doses. The apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) in the viable parts of the tumor was automatically calculated from DWI imaging findings. These findings were correlated with histopathologic results at each time point. Volumetric measurements were performed by summing up the regions of interest in consecutive slices.
Thirty-one patients (22 men, 9 women; mean age 55.1 +/- 17.5 years) were selected based on global EFs calculated at the time of the clinical visit with the Argus postprocessing tool (Siemens Medical Solutions). Patients were then placed into 2 predetermined categories of normal: EF &gt;or=50% and abnormal: EF &lt;50%. Regional EF was calculated for each segment of a 16-segment cardiac model. Three blinded reviewers used the standard of care assessment of regional function, which was a qualitative grading of the 16 segments into categories of normal or abnormal regional wall motion by visual analysis. CIM quantitatively analyzed global EF and regional EF for each segment. These segments were then sorted into the predetermined categories of normal (EF &gt;or=50%) and abnormal (EF &lt;50%). Level of agreement was conducted via Pearson correlation coefficient and Bland-Altman analysis for global EF analysis and observed proportion of agreement (p(a)), sensitivity, and specificity for regional EF analysis.
Fifty-one patients underwent dual-energy CT angiography of the lower-extremity arteries on a dual-source CT scanner. CT parameters were tube potentials, 140 and 80 kVp; exposure, 80 and 340 mAs/rot; and collimation, 14 x 1.2 mm. Bolus tracking was used in the descending aorta for timing (Ultravist 370). Bones were removed from the datasets using the 3 techniques and MIP datasets were generated. Two experienced radiologists assessed image quality ((1) correct removal of bones and preservation of vessels without artificial truncation, stenoses or occlusions of arteries; (2) minor errors with residual bone in the dataset or removal of side branches; (3) significant errors impeding diagnostic evaluation), number of vessel segmentation errors, and number of nonremoved bones. Additionally, time for MIP-generation was measured. The plaque removal tool was applied to DEBR MIPs and the outcome was rated as positive, neutral, or negative.
We reviewed all observational studies that evaluated the association between PD risk and tea consumption. Only, 12 studies were identified: 11 case-control and 1 cohort. These studies were carried out between 1981 and 2003. The studies represented different populations from 3 continents; North America, Europe and Asia. The 3 studies from Asia were case-control studies of Chinese populations.
Cross-sectional study investigating dietary intakes using food records. Parents were instructed to document all food and drink consumed by their child for 3 consecutive days.
Healthy children (n = 91), 4-7 years of age, living in central Alberta, Canada were volunteered by their parents to participate in the study. Seventy-eight children completed the study.
Twenty-two subjects, with impaired fasting blood glucose with BMI ranging from 25 to 45, were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Subjects were given capsules containing either a placebo or 250 mg of an aqueous extract of cinnamon (Cinnulin PF) two times per day for 12 weeks. Plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations were assessed using high performance liquid chromatography and plasma antioxidant status was evaluated using ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) assay. Erythrocyte Cu-Zn superoxide (Cu-Zn SOD) activity was measured after hemoglobin precipitation by monitoring the auto-oxidation of pyrogallol and erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity by established methods.
Participants were 5,081 French men and women aged 35-61 y, voluntarily enrolled in a long-term clinical trial of cancer and CVD prevention (SU.VI.MAX study). Participants provided 12 days of dietary recalls. Data on heights, weights, blood pressure, and lipid profiles were obtained from clinic visits.
Healthy Eating Index (HEI) scores were calculated for each participant. The association between dietary and lifestyle variables and health was tested using analyses of variance and regression models in a cross sectional design.
Eleven healthy male volunteers were randomly given, at three separate times, SWF, MWF, and white-wheat bread (WWB, reference food). Plasma glucose, insulin and ghrelin concentrations were measured. The feeling of hunger was evaluated using a subjective rating scale. Starch structure of SWF and MWF was characterised by scanning electron microscopy.
Iron status was assessed using red cell distribution width, transferrin saturation, serum ferritin, and soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR). Tumor-necrosis factor-alpha provided a marker of inflammation, and body fat percentage (BF) was calculated from mean skinfold thickness measurements at 3 sites.
Sixteen male Syrian Golden hamsters (8-month-old; initial body weight 167 +/- 5 g) were divided into two groups and fed on atherogenic diets supplemented either with 0.5% linoleic acid or trans-10,cis-12 CLA, for 6 weeks. Liver lipids, fatty acid profile, protein, water and DNA contents were analysed. The activity and expression of several enzymes involved in liver fatty oxidation and lipogenesis were assessed, as was the expression of transcriptional factors controlling these enzymes.
Thirty cases of anembryonic pregnancy were diagnosed using ultrasound scanning that showed an empty gestation sac with no embryo pole in the uterus. Additionally, thirty women with normal pregnancy were followed through the delivery a live and normal baby. The cases and controls were matched by age and week of gestation. Levels of 55 elements, homocysteine, folate and S-adenosylhomocysteine in women with anembryonic pregnancies were compared with those of the women experiencing normal pregnancies.
The study was conducted as a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, three-treatment cross-over design trial. The participants visited the hospital as outpatients.
Twenty patients meeting the 1987 criteria for the classification of rheumatoid arthritis completed the study.
The subjects were randomized in three groups to receive one of following supplementation; quercetin+vitamin C (166 mg+133 mg/capsule), alpha-lipoic acid (300 mg/capsule) or placebo for 4 weeks (3 capsules/day). Each treatment period consisted of 4 weeks with 2 weeks of wash-out period before the subject starts next supplementation.
Serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta(IL-1beta), interleukin -6(IL-6), and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured. The severity of disease was evaluated using Korean Health Assessment Questionnaire(KHAQ) and Visual Analogue Scale(VAS). Nutrient intake was measured at baseline and at the end of each intervention period.
In this cross-sectional study, food and fluid intake and physical activity in 116 healthy overweight adults (BMI: 25-36 kg/m(2); age: 18-60y) was compared between a non-intervention and an intervention week using diet diaries and pedometers. The major outcomes were steps/day, daily caloric intake, macronutrient intake and meal size. Within subject ANOVAs were conducted to compare results between intervention and non-intervention weeks.
Secondary analysis of data from the 1999-2004 NHANES. SUBJECTS/ SETTING: Participants 2 years of age and older.
Percentage of the population meeting current recommendations for calcium, potassium and magnesium.
Percentage of EAR/AI for nutrients was calculated based on age/gender specific values. All analyses were weighted using the NHANES six-year sample weights and adjusted for the complex sample design of NHANES with the statistical package SUDAAN.
One reviewer independently conducted systematic searches in eight databases. The authors then abstracted information, assessed study quality and combined odds ratios (ORs), when obtainable, by using a random-effects model.
The authors used data from a National Institute of Dental Research survey of the oral health of U.S. children conducted in 1986 and 1987 to determine the prevalence of caries and mean decayed, missing or filled surfaces on permanent maxillary right first molars in children 7 to 17 years of age who had a history of a single residence. (To date, this is the only national oral health data set in the United States with detailed information on fluoride exposures.) They examined the association between enamel fluorosis and caries using logistic regression analysis, controlling for potential confounders in communities with water at or above optimal fluoridation levels and in communities with nonfluoridated or suboptimally fluoridated water.
The authors conducted a literature search using PubMed to identify original research articles and case reports that described oral conditions and associated factors that result in sequestrum formation and bone exposure.
Thirty participants, each of whom had at least two pairs of similar-sized noncarious cervical lesions, took part in this study. The authors placed 120 restorations, 30 in each of four groups: Clearfil S3 Bond (Kuraray, Osaka, Japan) (CS) and iBond Gluma inside (Heraeus Kulzer, Hanau, Germany) (IB), and Clearfil S3 Bond (CSB) and iBond Gluma inside (IBB) with an extra layer of hydrophobic adhesive applied on top of them. They placed the restorations incrementally, using a resin-based composite. The authors evaluated the restorations at baseline and at 18 months following modified U.S. Public Health Service criteria.
The authors analyzed Medicaid dental claims data for 50,485 children residing in Wayne County, Mich. The study sample included children aged 5 through 12 years in 2002 who had been enrolled in Medicaid for at least one month and had had at least one dental visit each year from 2002 through 2005. The authors assessed dental care utilization and treatment patterns cross-sectionally for each year and longitudinally.
The authors enrolled 144 participants (67 natural red-haired and 77 dark-haired) aged 18 to 41 years in a cross-sectional observational study. Participants completed validated survey instruments designed to measure general and dental care-specific anxiety, fear of dental pain and previous dental care avoidance. The authors genotyped participants' blood samples to detect variants associated with natural red hair color.
The authors measured the pH and titratable acidity of candies dissolved in artificial saliva or water. They then measured the lesion depths of enamel surfaces exposed to candy slurries for 25 hours. Statistical analyses included two-sample t tests and Wilcoxon rank-sum tests to identify differences between original-flavor and sour candies, as well as correlations to identify relationships between lesion depths, pH and titratable acidity.
A randomized controlled repeated-measure design was used, and generalized estimating equations were used to evaluate status at baseline and 4 and 12 months after initiation of the Res-Care intervention.
Twelve nursing homes in Maryland.
Four hundred eighty-seven residents consented and were eligible: 256 from treatment sites and 231 from control sites. The majority were female (389, 80.1%) and white (325, 66.8%); 85 (17.4%) were married and the remaining widowed, single, or divorced/separated. Mean age was 83.8 +/- 8.2, and mean Mini-Mental State Examination score was 20.4 +/- 5.3.
Res-Care was a two-tiered self-efficacy-based intervention focused on motivating nursing assistants and residents to engage in functional and physical activities.
Barthel Index, Tinetti Gait and Balance, grip strength, Dementia Quality-of-Life Scale, self-efficacy, and Outcome Expectations Scales for Function.
Prospective population-based cohort study.
The Rotterdam Study and the Leiden 85-plus Study.
Three thousand seventy-eight men and women, initial age 55 to 84 from the Rotterdam Study and 276 men and women, initial age 85, from the Leiden 85-plus Study.
Systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) were measured at baseline, cognitive function was assessed at the end of follow-up using a dedicated neuropsychological test battery. The association between baseline BP levels and cognitive function later in life was assessed in 10-year age groups in the Rotterdam Study and in 85-year-olds of the Leiden 85-plus Study.
A 5-day inpatient circadian rhythm-sleep study consisting of 3 baseline nights followed by an extended 26-hour wake episode under constant conditions.
Intensive Physiological Monitoring Unit, General Clinical Research Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital.
Thirty-seven healthy participants without medical, psychological, or sleep disorders: 26 young (7 women, 19 men; mean age 21.9 +/- 3.3, range 18-29) and 11 "young-old" adults (3 women, 8 men; mean age 68.1 +/- 3.6, range 65-76).
An extended 26-hour wake episode under constant conditions.
Electroencephalographic-verified wakefulness, slow eye movements, sustained attention, subjective sleepiness.
Cross-sectional survey of medical claims data.
Indiana Medicaid claims for 2004.
Indiana Medicaid recipients continuously eligible for Medicaid in 2004 aged 65 and older with dementia who were residing in nursing homes and taking cholinesterase inhibitors.
Rates of concomitant anticholinergic and cholinesterase inhibitor use, number of days residents experienced concomitant use, and concomitant use according to therapeutic class and level of anticholinergic activity were determined.
Randomized controlled trial.
Veterans Affairs Medical Center of Durham, North Carolina.
Three hundred ninety-eight male veterans aged 70 and older.
Twelve months of usual care (UC) or multicomponent PAC consisting of baseline in-person and every other week and then monthly telephone counseling by a lifestyle counselor, one-time clinical endorsement of PA, monthly automated telephone messaging from the primary care provider, and quarterly tailored mailings of progress in PA.
Gait speed (usual and rapid), self-reported PA, function, and disability at baseline and 3, 6, and 12 months.
Cross-sectional analysis.
Two hospital-based primary care practices serving a low-income inner-city population.
Adults aged 65 and older (n=323).
Data on self-reported asthma, depression, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension were collected through interviewer-administered surveys (in English and Spanish) and chart abstraction. Chart-based disease was defined in two ways: physician documentation and physician documentation plus use of a medication to treat that condition. Sensitivity, specificity, and agreement were calculated. Univariate and multivariable regression analyses were used to determine the associations between patient characteristics and patient-chart agreement.
Systematic review and metasynthesis of primary research reporting the impact of PU and PU interventions on HRQL according to direct patient reports. Quality assessment criteria were developed and applied. Data extraction identified findings in the form of direct quotes from patients or questionnaire items and domain results. Combined synthesis of qualitative and quantitative research was performed using content analysis to generate categories and themes from findings. Thirteen electronic databases were searched, and hand searching, cross-referencing, contact with experts, and an online search was undertaken. No language restrictions were applied.
Adults with PUs in acute, community, and long-term care settings across Europe, the United States, Asia, and Australia.
Thirty-one studies including 2,463 participants with PUs were included in the review. Ages ranged from 17 to 96.
Cross-sectional data analysis of a national community survey.
The 2005 and 2006 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health.
Ten thousand nine hundred fifty-three respondents aged 50 and older (6,717 aged 50-64 and 4,236 aged &gt; or = 65).
Social and demographic variables, detailed assessment of nonprescription use (and abuse) of prescription pain relievers (e.g., acetaminophen with codeine, morphine), substance use, major depression, self-reported medical illnesses, and self-rated health.
Prospective cohort study.
Twenty-two Boston-area NHs.
Three hundred twenty-three NH residents with advanced dementia and their HCPs.
Decisions made by HCPs over 18 months were ascertained quarterly. After making a decision, HCPs completed the Decision Satisfaction Inventory (DSI) (range 0-100). Independent variables included HCP and resident sociodemographic characteristics, health status, and advance care planning. Multivariable linear regression identified factors associated with higher DSI scores (greater satisfaction).
Cross-sectional correlation analysis.
GEM Study sites in California, Maryland, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania.
Three thousand seventy ambulatory individuals aged 75 and older enrolled between September 2000 and June 2002.
Use of prescription drugs and dietary supplements identified through bottles brought to the clinic.
Consenting older adults were examined to document location and size of bruises and assess whether they were inflicted during physical abuse. An expert panel confirmed physical abuse. Findings were compared with results of an earlier study of accidental bruising in older adults.
Residences of participants.
Sixty-seven adults aged 65 and older reported to Adult Protective Services (APS) for suspected physical elder abuse.
Age, sex, ethnicity, race, functional status, medical conditions, cognitive status, history of falls, bruise size and location, recall of cause, and responses to Revised Conflicts Tactics Scale and Elder Abuse Inventory.
Community-based population in Copenhagen.
The study was based on the Glostrup Aging Study of the 1914 population, with baseline in 1984 when the participants were 70 years old and follow-up 21 years later.
Three hundred thirty-five dentate men and women participated in the clinical oral health examination.
Severe periodontal inflammation was measured for all teeth present as the number of teeth with inflammation and periodontal pockets 6 mm deep or more. Mortality data were obtained from the Danish Death Register at 21-year follow-up. The Cox proportional hazards regression model was used. Covariates were measured at baseline and included number of teeth, caries, sex, education, income, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, osteoarthritis, arteriostenosis, myocardial infarction, comorbidity, fatigue, and ability to brush teeth.
Prospective cohort study.
Tertiary hospital ED with 55,000 annual visits.
ED patients aged 65 and older admitted for infection between December 2003 and September 2004 in the derivation cohort and October 2005 and October 2006 in the validation cohort.
28-day in-hospital mortality. Data were extracted from charts, and multivariate logistic regression were performed to identify independent mortality predictors. A prediction model was constructed and then validated in a second cohort.
A prospective cohort study with mean follow-up of 6.2 years.
Participants were recruited and followed at two centers affiliated with academic medical institutions.
Six hundred twenty-five men and women aged 70 and older and in good health at the time of enrollment.
Serum IGF-1, IGFBP-1, and IGFBP-2; fasting serum insulin; fasting serum glucose; visceral fat; and total percent fat.
Prospective study.
Two nursing homes.
Fifty-two nursing home residents.
Thirty residents with impaired oral hygiene were randomly assigned to manual oral brushing plus 0.12% chlorhexidine oral rinse at different frequencies daily. Twenty-two residents with swallowing difficulty were randomly assigned to upright feeding positioning, teaching swallowing techniques, or manual oral brushing. All protocols were administered over 3 months.
Feasibility was assessed monthly and defined as high if the protocol took less than 10 minutes to administer. Adherence was assessed weekly and defined as high if full staff adherence was demonstrated in more than 75% of assessments. Effectiveness for improved oral hygiene (reduction in oral plaque score) and swallowing (reduction in cough during swallowing) was compared at baseline and 3 months.
Cluster-randomized trial.
Fifteen psychogeriatric nursing home wards in the Netherlands.
In total, 432 psychogeriatric nursing home residents from 15 psychogeriatric nursing home wards in seven nursing homes were selected for participation; 404 consented, and 371 of these were available at baseline. Two hundred forty-one from 14 wards had complete data and were included in the data analyses.
The nursing home wards were assigned at random to educational intervention or control status. The educational intervention consisted of an educational program for nursing staff combined with consultation with a nurse specialist (registered nurse (RN) level).
Data were collected at baseline and 1, 4, and 8 months postintervention. At each measurement, the use of physical restraints was measured using observations of blinded, trained observers on four separate occasions over a 24-hour period. Other resident characteristics, such as cognitive status, were determined using the Minimum Data Set.
We performed a randomized, participant and outcome assessor-blinded, placebo-controlled trial. Participants, stratified by operative procedure (either arthroscopic decompression or rotator cuff repair), were given preemptive 1% ropivacaine (20 mL) and intraoperative intravenous parecoxib (40 mg) and were randomly assigned to 0.75% ropivacaine or placebo by elastomeric pump at 5 mL/hr. Pain at rest was reported on a verbal analogue scale at fifteen, thirty, and sixty minutes and at two, four, eight, twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four hours. The use of alternative analgesia, delay in discharge, and adverse events, including development of stiff painful shoulder, infection, and leakage, were also assessed.
Forty-six patients with an injury to a single limb were randomized to be treated with augmented external fixation (twenty-two patients), a locked volar plate (twelve), or a locked radial column plate (twelve). The fracture classifications included Orthopaedic Trauma Association (OTA) types A3, C1, C2, and C3. The patients completed the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire at the time of follow-up. Grip and lateral pinch strength, the ranges of motion of the wrist and forearm, and radiographic parameters were also evaluated.
Seventy subjects undergoing total knee replacement were randomized to receive either the Trabecular Metal or the cemented tibial component. Radiostereometric analysis of micromotion of the tibial components was performed postoperatively at six, twelve, and twenty-four months, and the maximum total point motion of the implant and three-dimensional translations and rotations were recorded.
Patients who were fifty years old or more, with no history of infection, and were undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty were randomized at the time of surgery to receive either an all-polyethylene or a metal-backed tibial component. Patients were assessed preoperatively and at one, three, five, eight, and ten years postoperatively. All assessments included a clinical history, a physical examination, and a radiographic evaluation. A total of 510 consecutive patients (566 knees) were recruited from August 1993 to January 1997. The mean age of the patients at the time of the index arthroplasty was 69.3 years, and 299 (59%) were women. The primary diagnosis was osteoarthritis for 458 knees (80.9%) and rheumatoid arthritis for 108 knees (19.1%).
Forty-seven patients with symptomatic type-II SLAP tears were evaluated preoperatively and at least two years postoperatively with use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) and L'Insalata outcomes instruments and physical examination. The study group included thirty-nine male and eight female patients with a mean age of thirty-six years; thirty-four of the forty-seven patients were athletes. Patients with rotator cuff tears requiring repair or concomitant shoulder instability were excluded.
We performed a prospective, randomized, multicenter pilot study to investigate the use of rhBMP-2 on an absorbable collagen sponge combined with a ceramic-granule bulking agent as a replacement for autogenous iliac crest bone graft in single-level posterolateral lumbar arthrodesis with instrumentation. The investigational group (twenty-five patients) was treated with a 1.5 mg/mL solution of rhBMP-2 on two strips of absorbable collagen sponge (total dose of rhBMP-2, 12 mg) combined with 10 cm(3) of ceramic granules. The control group (twenty-one patients) received iliac crest bone graft. Clinical outcomes were assessed with use of well-established instruments. Radiographs were reviewed to assess consolidation of fusion.
The Nationwide Inpatient Sample database was used to analyze bearing type and demographic characteristics associated with 112,095 primary total hip arthroplasties performed in the United States between October 1, 2005, and December 31, 2006. The prevalence of each type of total hip arthroplasty bearing was calculated for population subgroups as a function of age, sex, census region, payer class, and hospital type.
From 1988 to 2005, the Nationwide Inpatient Sample recorded over 1 million patients who underwent joint replacement surgery. The present retrospective study compared patients with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (n = 3973), those with controlled diabetes mellitus (n = 105,485), and those without diabetes mellitus (n = 920,555) with regard to common surgical and systemic complications, mortality, and hospital course alterations. Additional stratification compared the effects of glucose control among patients with Type-I and Type-II diabetes. Glycemic control was determined by physician assessments on the basis of the American Diabetes Association guidelines with use of a combination of patient self-monitoring of blood-glucose levels, the hemoglobin A1c level, and related comorbidities.
We conducted a retrospective review of a consecutive series of male patients who had a saddle-horn injury of the pelvis after being bucked from a horse. Clinical and radiographic results were assessed more than eighteen months after the injury. Functional outcome measures were evaluated at the time of the latest follow-up with use of visual analog pain scales, a questionnaire addressing occupational and recreational function, the International Index of Erectile Function instrument, the Iowa pelvic score, and the Short Form-36.
Dorsoplantar weight-bearing radiographs of sixty normal feet (the control group) and sixty-five feet with hallux valgus (the hallux valgus group) in a study of adult women were reviewed. The feet in the hallux valgus group were treated with a proximal metatarsal osteotomy, and the radiographs were assessed preoperatively, at the early follow-up interval (at a mean of 3.1 months), and at the most recent follow-up interval (at a mean of forty-five months). The position of the medial sesamoid was classified with a grading system ranging from I through VII as described by Hardy and Clapham. In the feet with hallux valgus, we defined a grade of IV or less as the normal position of the medial sesamoid (the normal-position group) and grade V or greater as lateral displacement of the sesamoid (the displacement group).
Twelve patients who underwent allograft-prosthetic composite reconstruction of the proximal part of the tibia after tumor resection were retrospectively evaluated at a median follow-up of forty-nine months. Clinical records and radiographs were reviewed to evaluate patient outcome, healing at the allograft-host junction, function, construct survival, and complications.
Data were collected prospectively during a multicenter study. Surgical procedures were divided into three categories: primary device implantation, device exchange, and device lengthening. Further retrospective evaluation was undertaken in cases of neurologic injury or changes detected with neuromonitoring.
Between June 1981 and December 1983, 196 consecutive total hip arthroplasties were performed with use of an Iowa stem and a titanium-backed cemented acetabular component, with cobalt-chromium cable trochanteric reattachment. After nineteen to twenty years of follow-up, the patients were evaluated with regard to the depth of head penetration into the polyethylene (as a surrogate for wear), osteolysis, loosening, and the need for revision. The results were compared with those for a series of 304 total hip arthroplasties that were performed by the same surgeon from January 1984 to December 1985 with use of the same components and the same surgical technique, but with stainless steel wire trochanteric reattachment. The two groups had a comparable nineteen to twenty-year follow-up. All living patients (fifty-nine hips in the cable group and ninety-two hips in the wire group) had minimum ten-year follow-up radiographs.
One hundred and eleven tibial lengthening procedures in sixty-three patients were chosen. Seventy-six segments underwent lengthening with an Ilizarov ring fixator, and thirty-five segments had lengthening over an intramedullary nail. Serial radiographs were evaluated with regard to the amounts of tibiofibular distraction difference, proximal tibiofibular joint distraction, distal tibiofibular joint distraction, tibial axial deviation, and heel malalignment. Clinically, laxity at the knee was evaluated and fibular head instability was assessed. Variations in all of these parameters were evaluated with respect to tibiofibular joint fixation, etiology, skeletal maturity, lengthening over an intramedullary nail, and amount of lengthening.
Two hundred patients who had transplantation of an autologous osteochondral graft obtained from an asymptomatic knee for the treatment of an osteochondral defect of the talus were evaluated. Of the 200 patients, 112 were followed for a minimum of two years (mean duration of follow-up, fifty-five months). The WOMAC (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index) and the Lysholm score were used to assess functional outcome. Variables that were examined included the number of grafts, total size of the harvested cylinders, patient age, body mass index, and overall satisfaction of the patient with the result of the procedure at the knee. A multiple linear regression analysis was utilized to determine the influence of each parameter on the WOMAC and Lysholm scores. In addition, the Lysholm scores for the entire patient group were reviewed to determine how long after the index surgery clinical improvement ceased.
The records of 122 consecutive patients who were fifty-five years of age or older and in whom a Neer three or four-part proximal humeral fracture had been treated surgically between January 2002 and November 2005 were studied retrospectively. After exclusions, thirty-eight patients treated with a locked-plate construct were compared with forty-eight patients who had undergone hemiarthroplasty. All patients had radiographic and clinical follow-up at a minimum of twenty-four months and an average of thirty-six months. Reduction and implant placement were evaluated radiographically. Clinical outcomes were measured with use of the Constant-Murley system.
We reviewed thirty patients with congenital scoliosis (including fifteen patients with failure of vertebral formation and fifteen with failure of vertebral segmentation). All patients had adequate axial T2-weighted, digitally formatted magnetic resonance imaging scans that were suitable for cross-sectional measurement. Cross-sectional areas of the spinal cord and spinal canal at each of the twelve thoracic levels were calculated three times by a blinded observer, and the average values were compared with measurements from age-matched normal controls.
Developmental dysplasia of the hip, avascular necrosis, and the treatment algorithm were carefully defined. The outcome was determined as the probability of any neonate having a non-arthritic hip through the age of sixty years. A decision tree was then built with decision nodes as described above, and chance node probabilities were determined from a thorough review of the literature. Foldback analysis and sensitivity analyses were performed.
The asymmetrical deficit was calculated ([fractured limb/sum of both lower limbs] x 100%) for isometric knee extension torque, rate of force development during isometric testing, and leg extension power. The asymmetrical measures for lower-limb muscle mass (fractured limb--nonfractured limb), and that of lower-limb pain and disease and injury burden (nonfractured limb--fractured limb), were calculated.
Fifty-four patients with unilateral obstetric brachial plexopathy who were ten to sixty days old underwent bilateral motor-nerve-conduction studies of the axillary, musculocutaneous, proximal radial, distal radial, median, and ulnar nerves. The ratio between the amplitude of the compound muscle action potential of the affected limb and that of the healthy side was called the axonal viability index. The patients were followed and classified in three groups according to the clinical outcome. We analyzed the receiver operating characteristic curve of each index to define the best cutoff point to detect patients with a poor recovery.
Radial head implants of varying thicknesses were inserted into seven cadaver specimens, which were then assessed clinically and radiographically. Eight stages were examined: the intact specimen (stage 1); repair of the lateral collateral ligament (stage 2); radial head resection with repair of the lateral collateral ligament (stage 3); insertion of an implant of the correct thickness (stage 4); and insertion of an implant that resulted in radial overlengthening of 2 mm (stage 5), 4 mm (stage 6), 6 mm (stage 7), or 8 mm (stage 8). The specimens were tested with and without muscle loading to simulate resting muscle tone and surgical paralysis, respectively. At each stage, radiographs were made to measure the ulnohumeral joint space and the lateral ulnohumeral joint was visually assessed.
With survey data from the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons and using standard financial techniques, we calculated the estimated return on investment of an additional year of orthopaedic training over a working lifetime. The net present value, internal rate of return, and the break-even point were estimated. Eight fellowships were examined and compared with general orthopaedic practice.
The UNITE survey was an Internet-based initiative that recruited patients and caregivers from 11 countries (Australia, Brazil, France, Greece, Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Sweden, the United States, and the United Kingdom). Opinion Research Corporation, Princeton, NJ, conducted the UNITE survey between June 10, 2006, and September 11, 2006, and analyzed the results.
We studied the interactions of Aspergillus species with mast cells in the absence of IgE in vitro with use of scanning electron microscopy. The extent of mast cell degranulation was quantified by measuring the release of beta-hexosaminidase.
Participants were children aged 1.5-8.9 years, including 427 children from a population-based sample in South Africa, 422 from a population-based sample in Uganda, and 567 from a clinic-based sample in Uganda. All serum specimens were tested by the same laboratory for KSHV antibodies with use of 2 enzyme immunoassays (against K8.1 and ORF65) and 1 immunofluorescence assay.
Nucleotide sequences of fhbp genes were obtained from 1837 invasive N. meningitidis serogroup B (MnB) strains from the United States, Europe, New Zealand, and South Africa. Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) analysis was performed on a subset of the strains.
We evaluated the incidence of STI among men aged 18-24 years enrolled in a randomized trial of circumcision to prevent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in Kisumu, Kenya. The outcome was first incident nonulcerative STI during 2 years of follow-up. STIs examined were laboratory-detected Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, and Trichomonas vaginalis infection.
The neonatal rotavirus candidate vaccine 116E was tested in a double-blind, placebo-controlled dose-escalation trial in India. Two doses of the Vero cell-adapted vaccine were evaluated. One hundred eighty-seven infants received a vaccine dose of 1 X 10(4) focus-forming units (ffu) and 182 received a dose of 1 X 10(5) ffu in a 1:1 randomization with placebo recipients. Infants received the vaccine at 8, 12, and 16 weeks, separately from routine vaccines.
var messenger RNA was isolated from 78 children with asymptomatic, mild, or severe malaria. We prepared complementary DNA from the upstream region into the DBL1alpha domain and picked, on average, 20 clones for sequencing.
C. albicans strain SC-5314 was grown in standard growth medium in the presence or absence a commercially available LE. Biofilms grown on silicone-elastomer catheter discs in these media were compared for mass by dry weight measurements. Biofilm morphology was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy and confocal laser microscopy. The effect of LE on C. albicans germination and growth was evaluated microscopically and by determination of colony-forming units, respectively.
With the recent finding that activated CD4(+) T cells express TLR2 as a costimulatory receptor, we hypothesized that M. tuberculosis and its components may directly affect CD4(+) T cells by engaging TLR2, thus facilitating the expansion and function of these lymphocytes in tuberculous pleura.
We examined the predictive value of 4 algorithms at predicting virologic response (VR) during 734 treatment-change episodes (TCEs). VR was defined as attaining plasma HIV-1 RNA levels below the limit of quantification. Drug-specific genotypic susceptibility scores (GSSs) were calculated by applying each algorithm to the baseline genotype. Weighted GSSs were calculated by multiplying drug-specific GSSs by antiretroviral (ARV) potency factors. Regimen-specific GSSs (rGSSs) were calculated by adding unweighted or weighted drug-specific GSSs for each salvage therapy ARV. The predictive value of rGSSs were estimated by use of multivariate logistic regression.
Six different 14-day dosages of oral ciprofloxacin were randomly assigned to 48 healthy volunteers. Individual pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters combining antibiotic exposure in plasma, saliva, and stool specimens and ciprofloxacin minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) and mutant prevention concentrations against viridans group streptococci in the pharyngeal flora and Escherichia coli in the fecal flora were estimated. Their links with the emergence of resistance to nalidixic acid or ciprofloxacin in the fecal flora and to levofloxacin in the pharyngeal flora 7, 14, or 42 days after ciprofloxacin initiation were investigated.
We conducted a randomized, controlled, phase 2b trial of RTS,S/AS02A in 2022 Mozambican children aged 1-4 years. We now report safety results for all randomized subjects and vaccine efficacy (VE) findings for children in the Manhiça area over the 45-month surveillance period.
In a double-blind, randomized trial, 102 healthy volunteers were evenly allocated to receive RTS,S/AS01B or RTS,S/AS02A vaccine at months 0, 1, and 2 of the study, followed by malaria challenge. Protected vaccine recipients were rechallenged 5 months later.
We conducted survival analyses of 310 consecutive subjects (including 80 patients &gt; or = 75 years of age) who developed cardiogenic shock after AMI at two study centers - Rush University Medical Center and the John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County (both in Chicago, Illinois). The data were collected over a 6-year period. Where appropriate, we used Kaplan-Meier survival plots, multivariate Cox proportional hazards modeling, stepwise multivariate Poisson regression analyses and unconditional logistic regression analysis.
Blood samples were obtained from ovine subjects to characterize the optical response of blood by measuring the reflectance spectrum at varying levels of hematocrit diluted by a contrast agent. The results from the in-vitro test were implemented into an in-vivo system. An aspiration catheter equipped with a fiberoptic sensor was inserted into the coronary sinus (CS) of 5 canines. Contrast was administered through the coronary artery and reflectance signals were recorded at the CS. The removal rate was analyzed through 20 specimen collections.
All patients (n = 52) who underwent LMTCAD at our center in 2006-2007 and treated with the PES form the basis of this report. Demographic, clinical, procedural and in-hospital outcome variables were reviewed. Angiograms were analyzed by an operator blinded to the patients' history. Mid-term follow up was achieved from medical records and/or phone calls. The primary endpoint of the study was either cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction or target lesion revascularization (TLR) on follow up. Follow up was achieved in 47/51 patients (92.2%) at a mean of 292.8 +/- 104.6 days. Patients were classified as Type A (30.8%) disease involving the LM and origin of branches, or Type B (69.2%) disease involving the origin of the trifurcation branches only, but not the LM artery. All patients were treated with kissing balloon after stenting. Descriptive analysis was performed on all variables with mean +/- standard deviation for continuous variables and percentages describing dichotomous variables. Univariate and logistic regression analyses were performed to determine the predictors of the primary endpoint.
E-mail invitations were sent to the 96 members of the Congenital Cardiovascular Interventional Study Consortium (CCISC). The survey was Internet-based and mainly consisted of multiple-choice questions.
From a total of 2,330 consecutive patients treated at our institution with DES, we selected 207 elderly patients (&gt; or = 75 years of age) who underwent, from May 2002 to December 2006, sirolimus-eluting stent (SES group, 116 patients [pts], 56%) or paclitaxel-eluting stent (PES group, 91 pts, 43.9%) implantation. We evaluated the 24-month incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE).
Based on inclusion criteria, 19 research reports were included in this review. Published year of selected articles was between 1996 and 2008. Nineteen studies were analyzed by guidelines of the cardiac rehabilitation programs done by the American Heart Association (AHA) and Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN).
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to one of three groups: a steroid group (S, n=10) that had no treatment for 7 days before steroid treatment; a DHEA-steroid group (DS, n=8) that had 0.34 mmol/kg/day DHEA injection once a day for 7 days before steroid treatment and an exercise?steroid group (EDS, n=9) that ran on the treadmill combined with 0.34 mmol/kg/day DHEA injection for 7 days before steroid treatment. At 15 days all rats were anesthetized and soleus, plantaris and gastrocnemius muscles were dissected. Body weight, food intake, muscle weight, myofibillar protein content and cross-sectional area of the dissected muscles were determined.
The sample for this study consisted of 505 nurses from 2 general hospitals located in Seoul and Kyeonggi Province, Korea. Data were collected with self-administrated questionnaires and analyzed by hierarchical multiple regression.
The qualitative data was gathered from one focus group discussion with 6 alcoholics and individual interviews with 8 alcoholics. They had all participated in a "healing forest" program. All interviews were recorded and transcribed according to thematic content analysis processes.
This study was a cross-sectional study. Data were collected using self-reported questionnaire from 200 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Variables were measured with the Type-D Scale-14 (DS14), Korean Health Related Quality of Life Scale (KoQoLS), and the Illness Intrusiveness Rating Scale (ILRS).
A two-group cross-over design was used for this study. The experimental treatment was aroma essential oil inhalation and the placebo treatment was carrier oil inhalation using a necklace. The sample included 36 female high school students. Fisher's exact test, t-test, and paired t-test using SPSS/WIN program were used to analyze the data.
All elders were assessed at baseline and 3 months later using RAI-HC. The change of function in the intervention group was compared with that of a conventional intervention group. Function was measured with Activities of Daily Living (ADL), Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL), Cognitive Performance Scale (CPS), Depression Rating Scale (DRS), Pain and the number of Clinical Assessment Protocols (CAP).
Secondary data, the Korea Youth Panel Study, was analyzed in this study. First, frequencies or percentages were calculated to identify smoking behavior (i.e., smoking initiation, smoking intensity, and smoking duration). Second, binary logistic regression analysis was performed to examine significant factors related to smoking initiation.
For data collection, intentional sampling of 300 elders was used. The questionnaire was composed of 5 items based on "Ministry of Health, the People's Republic of China (2008)" to measure health literacy, 33 health status items from the "Korean Health Status Measure for Elderly People" developed by Shin (2002), revised for use in China, and 9 general characteristics. Data were analyzed using SPSS Win 13.0 program.
Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to one of three groups: control (C) group (n=10) that had no procedures, sham (S) group (n=10) that underwent sham left sciatic nerve transection, and sciatic nerve transection (SNT) group (n=9) that underwent left sciatic nerve transection. At 15 days rats were anesthetized, and the soleus, plantaris and gastrocnemius muscles were dissected.
The data were collected from 207 students in grades 5 or 6, and descriptive statistics, t-test, Pearson correlation coefficients and Stepwise multiple regression were used with the SPSS/PC 12.0 program to analyze the data.
The data were collected from the Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service (HIRA) data base. The sample was selected from 17,234 patients who had been admitted between January 2007 and May 2008 to one of 253 long-term care hospitals located in Seoul, six other metropolitan cities or nine provinces The data were analyzed with SAS 9.1 using multi-level analysis.
The participants in this study were 36 patients with restless legs syndrome diagnosed by a neurologist and 36 participants in the normal group. An actigraph, sleep diary, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and Insomnia Severity Index scale were used as measurement tools for the study. Chi-square test, Lamda test, t-test and Kendall's correlation with SPSS 12.0 program were used to analyze the data.
Symptoms and QOL were examined both before chemotherapy and after 2 cycles of chemotherapy. The participants were 76 cancer patients receiving chemotherapy in one of 7 hospitals.
Survey visits using a structured questionnaire were conducted with 3,885 students in 2 middle schools and 2 high schools in Busan. A total of 13 instruments were used in this model. The analysis of data was done with both SPSS 14.0 for descriptive statistics and AMOS 5.0 for covariance structure analysis.
We performed extensive mutation analyses of all 51 coding exons of the LRRK2 gene in index cases from 226 Parkinson's disease families compatible with autosomal dominant inheritance, mostly from France (n = 182) and North Africa (n = 14).
61 index cases with NF1 clinical diagnosis but no identifiable NF1 mutation were screened for SPRED1 mutation.
We implemented analyses in 3484 men and women aged 18 years or older, at three study centres.
We analysed anti-IA-2 and anti-GAD 65 autoantibody data from 2282 T1D patients from 1117 multiplex families. HLA genotyping was available for all cases and their parents and association with autoantibody positivity was tested by the transmission disequilibrium test.
85 patients with a mild NF1 phenotype were screened for SPRED1 mutations. 44 patients negative for both NF1 and SPRED1 mutations were then screened for SPRED2-3 and SPRY1-4 mutations. Complexity analysis was applied to analyse the flanking sequences surrounding the identified SPRED1 mutations for the presence of direct and inverted repeats or symmetric sequence elements in order to infer probable mutational mechanism.
To identify new transcriptional pathways altered by the normal and/or abnormal function of huntingtin, we probed several nuclear receptors, normally expressed in the brain, for binding to huntingtin in its mutant and wild-type forms.
This retrospective cohort study examines mortality outcomes among patients included in the Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS) for 2004. Patients included in the cohort were identified using the International Classification of Diseases, 9th revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) code for SAH. Multivariable logistic regression analyses and Cox proportional hazard regression analyses are used to measure the association of weekend admission on mortality for patients with SAH, adjusted for differences in patient characteristics that also contribute to mortality risk.
This novel sensor system consists of a hemostatic valve connected to the proximal end of a microcatheter (Y-connector). The sensor principle is based on an optical system composed of a light-emitting diode (LED) and a line sensor. The latter measures how much the coil-delivery wire slightly bends in response to the insertion pressure by detecting the wire shadow. This information is translated into a given force level. Experimental aneurysm embolization was performed using this optical sensor. A silicone aneurysm model and an in vivo model (porcine aneurysm model) were used in this study. Several surgeons manually performed the coil insertions. The sensor continuously monitored the mechanical force during the insertions.
Three patient-specific silicone aneurysm models based on clinical images were used in this study. Model 1 was constructed from a wide-necked internal carotid artery-ophthalmic artery aneurysm, and Models 2 and 3 were constructed from small wide-necked middle cerebral artery aneurysms. Neuroform stents were placed in the in vitro aneurysm models, and flow structures were compared before and after the stent placements. Flow velocity fields were acquired with particle imaging velocimetry.
The signal intensity of the MCA ipsilateral to CEA on preoperative MR angiography was graded according to the ability to visualize the MCA in 106 patients with unilateral internal carotid artery stenosis (&gt;or=70%). Diffusion weighted MR imaging was performed within 3 days of and 24 hours after surgery. The presence or absence of new postoperative neurological deficits was also evaluated.
The EPO and IGF-I were administered intranasally to mice that underwent transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Stroke volumes were measured after 1 hour of MCAO and 24 hours of reperfusion. To evaluate the long-term effects of this treatment, behavioral outcomes were assessed at 3, 30, 60, and 90 days following MCAO. Radiography and liquid scintillation were used to visualize and quantify the uptake of radiolabeled 125I-EPO and 125I-IGF-I into the mouse brain after intranasal, intravenous, subcutaneous, or intraperitoneal administration.
A MEDLINE (1950-2007) database search was performed using the following keywords, singly and in combination: "ventriculoperitoneal shunt," "hydrocephalus," "subarachnoid hemorrhage," "aneurysm," "fenestration," and "lamina terminalis." Additional studies were manually singled out by scrutinizing references from identified manuscripts, major neurosurgical journals and texts, and personal files. A recent study from the authors' institution was also incorporated into the review. Data from included studies were analyzed using the chi-square analysis and Student t-test. The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test was used to compare overall incidence of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus.
Cerebral metabolism was prospectively studied in 182 patients with aSAH. The database was retrospectively analyzed with respect to ICP. Patients were classified into 2 groups based on ICP. There were 164 with low ICP (&lt;20 mm Hg) and 18 with high ICP (&gt;or=20 mm Hg, measured&gt;6 hours/day). Cerebral microdialysis parameters of energy metabolism, glycerol, and glutamate levels were analyzed hourly from the brain parenchyma of interest for 7 days. The 12-month outcome in these patients was evaluated.
Sixteen patients with internal carotid artery stenosis (&gt;70%) underwent PET scanning before CAS, 1-7 days after CAS, and 3-4 months after CAS to assess a variety of parameters related to cerebral perfusion and metabolism.
Two hundred and forty-three adult patients were enrolled in this 1-year retrospective study. Multiple logistic regression was used to evaluate the relationship between baseline clinical factors and the presence or absence of seizure during the study period.
Eight patients with intracerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) and aneurysms underwent surgical treatment of their lesions in a combined endovascular surgical suite. After initial head positioning, preoperative biplane and rotational angiography was performed. Resection of the AVM or clipping of the aneurysm was then performed. Further biplane and rotational 3D angiograms were obtained intraoperatively to confirm satisfactory treatment.
Selections from fixed paraffin-embedded specimens were stained for histological examination with H &amp; E and Verhoeff-van Gieson stain. Lipid dye Oil Red O was used to stain vessel specimens that were embolized using NBCA. Specimens were evaluated for the presence of embolic agent, inflammation, angionecrosis, and evidence of recanalization. These results were correlated with the time interval between the bleeding, embolization, and resection.
Eleven patients-6 men and 5 women with a mean age of 48 years and each with a ruptured VBA-DA not amenable to internal trapping of the parent artery-underwent an SAC-SWS between November 2005 and October 2007. The feasibility and clinical and angiographic outcomes of this combined procedure were retrospectively evaluated.
Nine experimental aneurysms were created. The aneurysm dome was first embolized with bare platinum coils and HydroCoils, and then the remaining neck portion was embolized with HydroSoft coils to obtain maximum aneurysm occlusion. Follow-up angiography was performed at 1 and 3 months, and histopathological analysis was performed after the 3-month follow-up angiography.
Data obtained in 3567 patients who were entered into randomized trials of tirilazad between 1991 and 1997 were analyzed. Patients underwent treatment in 162 neurosurgical centers in 21 countries in North America, Europe, Africa, and Australia. The dependent variable was clinical outcome assessed 3 months after SAH with the Glasgow Outcome Scale, which was analyzed as a 5-point variable and dichotomized into favorable (good recovery or moderate disability) and unfavorable (severe disability, vegetative state, or death) outcomes. The effect of country or continent of treatment on outcome was assessed using univariate and multivariate logistic regression and proportional odds modeling before and after adjusting for numerous other factors significantly associated with outcome.
The authors investigated the tractography appearance of the descending motor pathways in 6 patients with intracranial vascular malformations. Of these patients 4 presented with a spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage, 2 of whom were clinically hemiparetic. Diffusion tensor imaging was performed using a 1.5-T clinical MR imaging system, and whole-brain tractography was performed after reconstruction of the data. A fractional anisotropy threshold of 0.05 was used to terminate the tractography. The semiautomatic motor pathway segmentation technique required definition of a single voxel within the corticospinal tract of the medulla from which the descending motor pathways were automatically defined by grouping together all streamlines within the entire image with a geometry similar to that of the single streamline generated from this initial voxel. The results of this segmentation were then visually assessed and compared with the patient's motor function.
In a prospective study design, patients with symptomatic carotid artery (CA) occlusion were selected for C-Port-assisted high-flow EC-IC bypass surgery if they met the following criteria: 1) transient or moderate permanent symptoms of focal ischemia; 2) CA occlusion; 3) hemodynamic instability; and 4) had provided informed consent. Bypasses were done using a radial artery graft that was proximally anastomosed to the superficial temporal artery trunk, the cervical external, or common CA. All distal cerebral anastomoses were performed on M2 branches using the C-Port Flex-A system.
Within 72 hours of aSAH, 80 patients (age range 24-82 years) were randomized to receive intravenous EPO (30,000 U) or placebo every 48 hours for a total of 90,000 U. Primary end points were the incidence, duration, and severity of vasospasm and impaired autoregulation on transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. Secondary end points were incidence of DIDs and outcome at discharge and at 6 months.
To understand its neuroprotective effect in vitro, GM-CSF was administered to a glutamate-induced excitotoxicity neuronal injury cell culture model that mimics the pathophysiology of focal hypoxic cerebral injury. In the animal study, the authors prepared a rat focal cerebral ischemia model by occluding the unilateral middle cerebral artery. They then examined the effects of GM-CSF administration on changes in infarct volume, apoptosis-related gene expression, and improvement in locomotor behavior.
The medical charts of 2808 children hospitalized between 1988 and 2007 for a true craniosynostosis were retrospectively reviewed. Patients were divided according to their subtype of craniosynostosis (sagittal, plagiocephaly, brachycephaly, metopic, oxycephaly, syndromic cases, or unclassifiable).
Eighty-four patients who underwent spinal cord untethering after at least 1 primary repair were retrospectively evaluated using scaled and subjective outcome measures at short-term and long-term follow-up visits. Outcomes were analyzed for predictive measures using multivariate logistic regression.
The authors conducted a prospective, controlled, clinical trial of data obtained in a pediatric intensive care unit of a regional trauma center. All patients were sedated and mechanically ventilated prior to inclusion in the study. Children with sustained, elevated ICP (&gt; 18 mm Hg) resistant to first-tier therapies received a single ketamine dose (1-1.5 mg/kg) either to prevent further ICP increase during a potentially distressing intervention (Group 1) or as an additional measure to lower ICP (Group 2). Hemodynamic, ICP, and CPP values were recorded before ketamine administration, and repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to compare these values with those recorded every minute for 10 minutes following ketamine administration.
The 4 centers of the Hydrocephalus Clinical Research Network participated in a retrospective chart review of infants with PHH who underwent treatment at each institution between 2001 and 2006. Patients were included if they had received a diagnosis of Grade 3 or 4 intraventricular hemorrhage, weighed &lt; 1500 g at birth, and had received surgical intervention. The authors determined the incidence of conversion from a temporizing device to a permanent shunt, the incidence of CSF infection during temporization, and the 6-month CSF infection rate after permanent shunt placement.
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging was performed in 24 infants with progressive hydrocephalus before and after CSF diversion. Parametric images of the trace apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) were obtained. The ADCs of 5 different cortical and subcortical regions of interest were calculated pre- and postoperatively in each patient. The ADC values were compared with age-related normal values. Mean arterial blood pressure and anterior fontanel pressure were measured immediately after each MR imaging study.
The expression of stathmin protein was examined by immunohistochemical staining of tumor sections obtained in 17 consecutive patients with medulloblastoma who underwent resection between 1995 and 2005. Four patients were excluded because they were either lost to follow-up or underwent biopsy sampling only, leaving a total of 13 patients in the study. The stathmin expression was scored according to the immunoreactive fraction of tumor cells, and the level was correlated with various clinicopathological factors.
The authors retrospectively reviewed the MR imaging findings in 60 consecutive patients who were reported to have pineal cysts over a 19-month period. Patients were identified retrospectively using a word search of radiology reports. Of these 60 patients, 24 with stable follow-up imaging or pathological proof of a pineal cyst were included in this study. In all cases, axial or sagittal FLAIR images were available, and in 10 of 24 patients the authors obtained sagittal images using fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition (FIESTA). For those cases in which FIESTA studies were obtained, the authors classified the cysts into 1 of 4 categories based on their appearance. Eighteen of 24 cases were performed with intravenous contrast.
This retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the methods of treatment used to manage IIS at a single institution. The authors reviewed 31 consecutive patients with a primary diagnosis of IIS. Patients were screened to ensure that there were no confounding congenital anomalies or comorbidities that may have contributed to the spinal deformity. The average age at the time of initial treatment was 25 months. Treatment modalities included bracing, serial body casting, and VEPTR. Pretreatment, posttreatment, and most recent Cobb angles were compared to assess the overall curve correction, and patient charts were reviewed for the occurrence of complications.
Between January 2006 and March 2008, 8 patients who presented with vertical mobile and reducible atlantoaxial dislocations were treated at the Department of Neurosurgery at King Edward Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, India. The vertical atlantoaxial dislocation/basilar invagination reduced completely on extension of the neck, with no need of any cervical traction. According to the extent of superior migration of the odontoid process, and measurements based on the vertical atlantoaxial instability index, the dislocation was graded as mild, moderate, or severe. All patients were treated using the C-1 lateral mass and C-2 pars plate and screw method of fixation.
Prospective follow-up was performed in 55 consecutive patients who underwent instrumented fusion of C-2 by a single surgeon. The causes of spinal instability and type and extent of instrumentation were documented. All patients underwent preoperative CT or MR imaging scans to determine the suitability of C-2 screw placement. Intraoperatively, screws were placed following dissection of the posterior pars interarticularis. Postoperative CT scans were performed to determine the extent of cortical breach. Patients underwent clinical follow-up, and complications were recorded as vascular or neurological. A CT-based grading system was created to characterize such breaches objectively by location and magnitude via percentage of screw diameter beyond the cortical edge (0 = none; I = &lt; 25% of screw diameter; II = 26-50%; III = 51-75%; IV = 76-100%).
Nine fresh-frozen C-7 cadaveric specimens were scanned for bone mineral density using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry. Prior to testing, all specimens were imaged using CT to obtain 1-mm axial sections. Caliper measurements of both pedicle width and laminar thickness were obtained. On the right side, pedicle screws were first inserted and then pulled out. Salvage intralaminar screws were inserted into the left lamina from the right spinous process/lamina junction and then pulled out. All screws were placed by experienced cervical spine surgeons under direct fluoroscopic visualization. Pedicle and lamina screws were 4.35- and 3.5-mm in diameter, respectively. Screws sizes were chosen based on direct and radiographic measurements of the respective anatomical regions. Insertional torque (IT) was measured in pounds per inch. Tensile loading to failure was performed in-line with the screw axis at a rate of 0.25 mm/sec using a MiniBionix II system with data recorded in Newtons.
All patients with severe CST in the north area of São Paulo City were studied. The data analyzed were age, sex, incidence, causes of trauma, level of trauma, morbidity, deaths, and complications. Analytical tests were performed to study risks of trauma and complications. The chi-square and analysis of variance tests were used for analytical data (significance level p &lt; 0.05).
The authors retrospectively reviewed data from the last 3000 patients with a histological diagnosis of disc herniation. Patients with preoperative MR imaging findings that simulated a spinal tumor or other space-occupying lesion were individually analyzed.
An institutional database of patients undergoing decompressive surgery for MESCC at an academic tertiary-care institution between 1996 and 2006 was retrospectively reviewed. Patients with primary lung, breast, prostate, kidney, or gastrointestinal (GI) cancer or melanoma were identified. Fisher exact and log-rank analyses were used to compare pre-, peri-, and postoperative variables and survival for patients with these different types of primary cancers.
The latencies of lumbar SSEPs were recorded in 40 patients with central LSS, including 16 men and 24 women. The mean age of the patients was 67.3 +/- 7.4 years. The diagnosis was LSS in 23 cases and LSS associated with degenerative spondylolisthesis in 17 cases. The average duration of symptoms was 43.8 +/- 51.2 months. Twenty-two cases had bilateral and 18 cases had unilateral leg symptoms. Thirty-seven cases were associated with neurogenic intermittent claudication and the mean walking distance of patients with this condition was 246.8 +/- 232.7 m. The mean Japanese Orthopedic Association scale score, as well as the visual analog scale (VAS) scores of low-back pain, leg pain, and numbness, were 16.5 +/- 3.5, 6.0 +/- 2.5, 6.9 +/- 2.1, and 7.8 +/- 2.2, respectively. The minimal cross-sectional area of the dural sac on MR imaging was 0.44 +/- 0.21 cm(2). Thirty-nine cases of cervical spondylotic myelopathy without lumbar and peripheral neuropathy were chosen as the control group.
The authors evaluated the branches of 20 VAs from 10 adult cadavers and assessed the distribution and surgical significance of the branches from the V2 and V3 segments.
We investigated liver samples obtained from 8 patients with liver failure due to unknown etiology and from 15 patients with metabolic disease: ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, 6 cases; Wilson disease, 3 cases; metylmalonic aciduria (MMA); 3 cases, neonatal hemochromatosis, 2 cases. The estimation of MRC enzymes was carried out by the following independent methods; i) blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) in gel enzyme staining, ii) BN-PAGE western blotting, iii) in vitro MRC enzyme assay. Furthermore, we estimated the quantities of mtDNA and nDNA using qPCR.
A total of 2,129 Korean CB units, donated and processed during the period from August 2007 to December 2007, were enrolled. We measured hemoglobin (Hb), white blood cell (WBC) count, differential count of WBC, platelets and nucleated red blood cell (nRBC) count by XE-2100 automated hematology analyzer (Sysmex, Japan), and estimated reference value of each parameter by using parametric (Mean+/-2SD) and/or non-parametric methods (2.5-97.5 percentile). And also, we compared the result of each parameter in relation to sex of neonates and delivery method.
Eosinophilia and hypereosinophilia were defined when absolute eosinophil count was greater than 500/microL and 1,500/microL, respectively. Patient's clinical records were reviewed to find out the underlying clinical conditions responsible for causes of hypereosinophilia. Conventional chromosomal analysis, reverse transcriptase PCR and FISH for gene rearrangement were performed to check the presence of clonal eosinophilia.
Based on our preliminary tests using various concentrations of DPA, 200 and 300 microg/mL concentration of DPA were chosen for further study. Bacterial lawns were grown on MHA biplate, one half of which contained DPA while the other did not. The inhibition zone around the imipenem (IPM) disk on both sides of this plate was compared. The stability of DPA in the stored DPA-MHA biplate was also evaluated during three months using two MBL- and one non-MBL-producing isolates.
A total of 113 clinical strains of S. pneumoniae (88 penicillin susceptible strains, 8 intermediate strains, and 17 resistant strains by 2008 CLSI criteria) were tested. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) for penicillin, cefotaxime, clindamycin, erythromycin, levofloxacin, trimethoprim/ sulfamethoxazole, tetracycline, and vancomycin were determined by Etest (AB Biodisk, Sweden) and Phoenix System. The results obtained by Phoenix system were compared to those obtained by Etest.
During the period of May to June 2005, we collected clinical isolates of E. coli that were intermediate or resistant to ceftazidime and/or cefotaxime from 11 Korean hospitals. Antimicrobial susceptibility was determined by the disk diffusion and agar dilution methods. ESBL production was confirmed phenotypically by the double-disk synergy test. ESBL and qnr genes were searched for by PCR amplification, and the PCR products were then subjected to direct sequencing.
Among the patients requested for HBV DNA quantification, 16 patients positive in HBV DNA but negative in HBsAg RIA (BNIBT HBsAg Kit, China) were enrolled. The "a" determinant of HBV S gene was sequenced and clinical characteristics were reviewed. Additional HBsAg assay was performed using Architect HBsAg kit (Abbott laboratories, USA) employing chemiluminescent immunoassay method.
A four-reaction multiplex ASPCR genotyping assay was designed to detect specific nucleotide sequence differences between the six ABO alleles A101, A102, B101, O01, O02, and cis-AB01. The ABO genotypes of 127 randomly chosen samples were determined using the new multiplex ASPCR method.
Forty MPD patients were included in this study. We screened JAK2 V617F and determined the mutant allele burden using JAK2 MutaScreen kit. The mutant allele burden was estimated by six-scaled standards of JAK2 V617F mutant allele (2%, 5%, 12.5%, 31%, 50%, and 78%). For evaluation of test performance, an allele-specific PCR (AS-PCR) was carried out in all samples by using Seeplex JAK2 Genotyping kit. We assessed the clinical differences in distinct disease entities of MPDs according to JAK2 V617F mutant allele burden.
Plasma RNA was extracted from 30 patients with NSCLC, 30 patients with benign lung diseases including pulmonary tuberculosis, and 10 healthy controls. Plasma hnRNP B1 mRNA was measured by TaqMan Gene Expression Assay (Applied Biosystems, USA), and pre-developed beta-actin (ACTB) mRNA was used for normalization. We analyzed the relative gene expression data using the delta-delta Ct method.
Thirty FOBT-positive specimens above 100 ng/mL were used for the study from July to August 2008. Quantitative FOBT was performed with OC-sensors II (Eiken Chemical Co., Japan). Each specimen was divided into 4 groups. Two groups in plastic buffer-free containers were kept either at 4 degrees C or room temperature (25-28 degrees C), respectively. Another two groups in buffer-tubes were also kept either at 4 degrees C or room temperature. Each group was repeatedly examined with same method every 24 hr up to 120 hr.
Between 1997 and 2006 a total of 123 patients (109 with pHPT and 14 with sHPT) underwent parathyroidectomy at the ENT Department in Luzern. Ultrasonographic scanning was performed on 74 patients (68%), szintigraphy in 8 patients (7%) and both scanning methods in 27 patients (25%). 103 patients were available for follow-up. The indications for each technique were reviewed and outcome measures included serum Calcium and parathyroid hormone levels.
Children with suspected APD were examined with a combination of 12 audiological and psychometric tests in order to allow the proper allocation to either the APD-group or to the Non-APD-group.
Forty-six 8-10-year-old children diagnosed with auditory-specific perceptual deficits [clinical group (C)APD; average age 9;2 years; SD 0;7 years] were compared to 39 normally developed children of the same age span with no evidence of specific language impairment, developmental dyslexia or learning disorders [control group Non-APD; average age 9;3 years; SD 0;7 years].
We examined 22 patients with acute stroke (14 men, 8 women, mean age 72.5 years) treated with intravenous rt-PA. All were assessed using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and underwent emergent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging within 3 hours and 24 hours of stroke onset. Patients were divided into a deteriorated group (16 patients), in which NIHSS scores were increased after thrombolysis, and a non-deteriorated group (6 patients). We compared the DWI score, ASPECTS, and volume of hyperintense ischemic lesion on DWI (DWI volume) of the 2 groups and examined correlations between these scores and initial NIHSS score or DWI volume.
We created a phantom using a wall of plastic bottles varied with plastic tapes measuring 0.4 to 3.0 mm thick (0-14 sheets) by vernier caliper and compared widths with those on profile curves. In 3 patients, to clarify the capacity to visualize the coronary wall in vulnerable plaque, we acquired WS-SPIR 3D T(1) TFE and WS-spectral attenuation with inversion recovery (SPAIR) (inversion time [TI] 400 ms) 3D T(1) TFE images of carotid vulnerable plaque; also termed "lipid-rich plaque," vulnerable plaque is considered to be visualized in high intensity. We utilized the same geometric parameters and rest period on WHCA as for WS-SPIR 3D T(1) TFE. We obtained MIF of WHCA and WS-SPIR 3D T(1) TFE and measured thickness of the right coronary artery (RCA) wall on the profile curve in 18 cases.
We used a 1.5-tesla MR system with body-array and spine coils to obtain oblique sagittal T(1)-weighted shoulder images of 29 normal adults (16 men, 13 women); 6 national-level competitive swimmers (4 men, 2 women); 10 collegiate-level female badminton players; and 7 collegiate-level male rowers. We calculated the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis CSAs at the 0-1 locations on the scapula (dividing scapula width into 11 locations), 0 representing the medial border of the scapula and 1, the glenoid fossa surface. We evaluated the differences in CSAs at relative locations on the scapula for each muscle in normal adults, swimmers, badminton players, and rowers using a one-way analysis of variance followed by the Tukey test (P&lt;0.05).
We performed 3D HP (129)Xe MR imaging of the lungs of 2 healthy and 2 emphysematous mice that were spontaneously breathing diluted HP (129)Xe (&lt;1%). From the three 3D MR images acquired by varying the flip angle of the radiofrequency (RF) pulse, we calculated the time constant of regional recovery, tau'(rep), which represents the time required for HP (129)Xe magnetization to be replenished approximately 63% after destruction of hyperpolarization by RF saturation pulse. After calculating the tau'(rep) maps, we examined the validity of our method.
Posthoc analysis of data was collected from 90 patients with severe sepsis/septic shock, randomized to either conventional or TGC groups. Independent of these treatments, patients with at least two organ dysfunctions simultaneously received rh-APC. Plasma levels of multiple biochemical markers for fibrinolysis, coagulation, and inflammation were determined every day for the 1st week and then on study days 9, 11, 13, 18, 23, and 28. Clinical data and sepsis-related organ failure assessment (SOFA) scores were also recorded.
A questionnaire was administered to the nurses of four non-intensive wards. The questionnaire addressed several issues, including the extent of the nurses' involvement in the decision to start the treatment, their relationship with the ward physicians and the Medical Emergency Team (MET), the monitoring, incidence, and management of errors and complications, the adhesion to the prescribed ventilatory program, and the desired training.
A randomized clinical trial was performed on 100 outpatients; 50 patients were enrolled in the subarachnoid anesthesia (SA) group and 50 patients in the monitored anesthesia care (MAC) group. Patients in the MAC group received local anesthesia plus target-controlled infusion propofol (LA+TCI). SA was performed using 7.5 mg 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine according to the selective technique. In the LA+TCI group, LA was performed with 20 mL 1% mepivacaine + 10 mL 1% ropivacaine; IV propofol sedation using TCI according to Schnider was used to obtain a Ramsay scale response of 4-5. Transferability from the operating room was evaluated based on an Aldrete score &gt; or =9; ability to discharge from the health facility was evaluated based on a Post-Anesthesia Discharge Scoring System (PADSS) &gt; or =9.
We injected pregnant dams (between E10.5 - E18.5) with anti-angiogenic agents, which caused either a placental insufficiency type of IUGR (intrauterine growth restriction; i.e., TNP-470) or frank placental pathology (Angiostatin(4.5) [AS(4.5)]), and assessed changes in absolute ocular dimensions, tissue types, and vascular profiles using stereological techniques.
We performed Western blotting of protein extracts from normal human glomeruli with serum samples from patients with idiopathic or secondary membranous nephropathy or other proteinuric or autoimmune diseases and from normal controls. We used mass spectrometry to analyze the reactive protein bands and confirmed the identity and location of the target antigen with a monospecific antibody.
We examined fee-for-service Medicare data from 1992 through 2005 to identify beneficiaries 65 years of age or older who underwent CPR in U.S. hospitals. We examined temporal trends in the incidence of CPR and the rate of survival after CPR, as well as patient- and hospital-level predictors of survival to discharge.
We randomly assigned patients who were referred for preoperative staging of NSCLC to either conventional staging plus PET-CT or conventional staging alone. Patients were followed until death or for at least 12 months. The primary end point was the number of futile thoracotomies, defined as any one of the following: a thoracotomy with the finding of pathologically confirmed mediastinal lymph-node involvement (stage IIIA [N2]), stage IIIB or stage IV disease, or a benign lung lesion; an exploratory thoracotomy; or a thoracotomy in a patient who had recurrent disease or death from any cause within 1 year after randomization.
We conducted a multicenter, controlled trial involving 285 normotensive patients with type 1 diabetes and normoalbuminuria and who were randomly assigned to receive losartan (100 mg daily), enalapril (20 mg daily), or placebo and followed for 5 years. The primary end point was a change in the fraction of glomerular volume occupied by mesangium in kidney-biopsy specimens. The retinopathy end point was a progression on a retinopathy severity scale of two steps or more. Intention-to-treat analysis was performed with the use of linear regression and logistic-regression models.
We compared spending for prescription drugs and other medical care 2 years before the implementation of Part D in January 2006 with such expenditures 2 years after the program's implementation in four groups of elderly beneficiaries: Medicare Advantage enrollees with stable, uncapped, employer-based drug coverage throughout the study period (no-cap group), those who had no previous drug coverage, and those who had previous limited benefits (with either a $150 or a $350 quarterly cap) before they were covered by Part D in 2006.
There are many different methods to collect saliva, either directly from the mouth as an expectorate or indirectly by using swabs, capillary tubes or paper foams. The swab may be cotton-based, synthetic, with or without a plastic sheath. There are different methods for analysis - immunological, radioisotopic, mass fragmentographic and chromatographic.
In this study, a patient requiring invasive monitoring for seizure localization underwent concurrent implantation with a 16-microwire array (1-mm electrode spacing) placed over primary motor cortex. Microscale activity was recorded while the patient performed simple contra- and ipsilateral wrist movements that were monitored in parallel with electromyography. Using various statistical methods, linear and nonlinear relationships between these microcortical changes and recorded electromyography activity were defined.
Six patients undergoing invasive monitoring for medically intractable epilepsy using subdural grid electrodes were asked to perform a motor task involving moving a joystick in 1 of 4 cardinal directions (up, down, left, or right) and a fifth condition ("trigger"). Evoked activity was synchronized to joystick movement and analyzed in the theta, alpha, beta, gamma, and high-gamma frequency bands.
To form the multifunctional neural probe, the authors affixed a 16-channel microfabricated silicon electrode array to a fused silica catheter. Three experiments were conducted in rats to characterize the performance of the device. Experiment 1 examined cellular damage from probe insertion and the drug distribution in tissue. Experiment 2 measured the effects of saline infusions delivered through the probe on concurrent electrophysiological measurements. Experiment 3 demonstrated that a physiologically relevant amount of drug can be delivered in a controlled fashion. For these experiments, Hoechst and propidium iodide stains were used to assess insertion trauma and the tissue distribution of the infusate. Artificial CSF (aCSF) and tetrodotoxin (TTX) were injected to determine the efficacy of drug delivery.
Arrays of nonpenetrating microwires were implanted over the human motor cortex in 2 patients. The patients performed directed stereotypical reaching movements in 2 directions. The resulting data were used to determine whether the reach direction could be distinguished through a frequency power analysis.
We evaluated the status of lutein, zeaxanthin, alpha- and beta-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, alpha- and beta-carotene, and fat-soluble vitamins by a quality-controlled high-performance liquid chromatography method in serum of 53 patients. Subjects were consecutively included as they were monitored for nutritional status after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGBP) or biliopancreatic diversion (BPD). Average follow-up time was 18 and 14 months for each protocol, respectively.
Serum phenylalanine and alanine aminotransferase (an independent predictor of liver steatosis) concentrations as well as several parameters related to obesity were measured in 16 obese patients (seven men and nine women) before and 6 months after vertical banded gastroplasty. Ten (six men and four women) lean, healthy subjects served as controls.
One hundred ten obese patients (body mass index, 47.9 +/- 8.6 kg/m(2)) undergoing gastric bypass had a measurement of plasma albumin and transthyretin (formerly prealbumin) and a calculation of nutritional risk index (NRI) before and throughout the 2 years following the surgery.
Thirty rats were randomized into normal chow group (NC), high-fat-diet group (HD), and sleeve group (SG). Rats in the SG group received sleeve gastrectomy operation. After operation, rats in SG and HD group received a high-fat diet, while rats in the NC group received normal chow. Body weight was measured every 10 days. Thirty days later, animals were sacrificed and blood samples were collected to check total cholesterol, HDL, and triglyceride. Fresh liver sections were made and stained with Nile red and observed under a fluorescence microscope.
BP measurements were recorded prospectively in 100 consecutive patients preoperatively and then postoperatively at weeks 1, 5, 9, and months 6 and 12. In order to reduce bias, three BP measurements were made by the same nurse at each office visit and the mean recorded. Pre- and postoperative usage of antihypertensive medication was also noted.
A total of 156 patients with morbid obesity were included in this prospective study. There were 120 women and 36 men, with a mean age of 41 years and a body mass index of 43 kg/m(2). They were submitted either to a laparotomic resectional gastric bypass or to a laparoscopic gastric bypass. Body temperature was measured every 8 h during 5 days. CPR and white blood cells were measured at the first, third, and fifth day after surgery.
We performed a retrospective review of 75 patients who underwent revisional surgery between December 2003 and October 2007. Demographic, anthropometric, perioperative, and clinical follow-up data were collected, and statistical analyses were performed using SPSS version 14.0.
In 26 patients with morbid obesity who underwent bariatric surgery, we analyzed different kinds of lipids and hepatic lipase (HL) from both plasma and liver biopsies performed 12-18 months after surgery.
The "Tip-Stitch" is a low-technology method of orienting the gastric specimen for easy retrieval. A suture through the distal tip of the specimen allows for extraction without enlarging a 15-mm trocar site.
Seventeen patients were studied 2 months after laparoscopic gastric banding. The aims were to evaluate the association between (1) the extent of pouch filling and satiety, (2) gastric emptying and weight loss, and (3) the pouch pressure during a meal and the sensation of satiety and weight loss.
From October 2002 to November 2008, 200 patients underwent LSG. Nineteen patients (9.5%) had a body mass index (BMI) of &gt;60 kg/m(2). A 48-Fr bougie is used to obtain an 80-120-ml gastric pouch. An oversewing running suture to reinforce the staple line was performed in the last 100 cases. The technique adopted to reinforce the staple line is a running suture taken through and through the complete stomach wall.
Patients in a prospective database of morbidly obese patients who underwent bariatric surgery between January 2004 and May 2007 were recruited by phone and in clinic. Patient demographics, body mass index (BMI) at surgery, and survey data were collected. The survey included questions regarding their child/grandchild's body habitus, weight, and height. Child obesity was defined as BMI percentile &gt; or =95. Statistical significance was set at p &lt; 0.05.
Thirty-six individuals were divided into two groups: patients who have kept a healthy weight 2 years after surgery and patients who showed weight regain of at least 2 kg 2 years after the surgery. Selected patients have signed a consent form. Body mass index and excess weight loss were evaluated. RMR and body fat percentage were measured. FFM is a heterogeneous component that can be partitioned into muscle mass and no-muscle mass. The FFM was calculated as the result of subtracting total fat weight from total body weight in kilogram. We also wanted to know if the predictive formulas to assess RMR overestimate energy expenditure in these patients. Statistical tests were used to analyze the two groups.
Sixty-two morbidly obese white women aged 45.3 +/- 8.9 years were studied. Anthropometric measurements, bone mineral density (BMD) screening using dual-energy X- ray absorptiometry and plasma determinations of calcium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone (PTH), 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH) D(3)] and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) were made prior to and 12 months after surgery.
Data describing peri-interventional characteristics were prospectively documented in an internet online data registry. All primary bariatric procedures performed since January 1st, 2005, were registered. In addition, reoperations in patients who had previously undergone primary surgical intervention were included. As a representative excerpt from the overall prospective multicenter observational study on obesity surgery, data on the type, regimen, and time course of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis were documented. From the number and spectrum of complications, the incidences of clinically manifest DVT or pulmonary embolism (PE) were derived during the in-hospital course and follow-up in conjunction with the type of surgical procedure and body mass index (BMI).
Twenty LAGB patients underwent high-resolution video manometry with the LAGB empty, 20% under, 20% over, and at their optimal volume. Twenty obese controls were also studied. Effects on esophageal motility, the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), and the gastroesophageal junction were measured. Transit during liquid and semisolid swallows was assessed.
All patients who underwent open Roux-en-Y gastric bypass from February 2007 to August 2008 were prospectively evaluated. Blood and peritoneal effluent from the drain were collected for the determination of cytokine levels. We also evaluated the clinical signs and the leukograms of the patients.
Thirty-two morbid obese females were enrolled in the study and evaluated at baseline, 1 and 18 months after LAGB surgery. Serum immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgA, IgM, C-reactive protein (CRP), haptoglobin, alpha-1 antitrypsin, total proteins, albumin, prealbumin, transferrin, ferritin, and transferrin soluble receptor were evaluated. In addition, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and fasting glucose were also evaluated.
Parotid saliva was collected from cotton rolls positioned in the oral cavity during two baseline water trials and ten lemon juice trials. Data were condensed into trial blocks, representing mean values for the two baseline water trials and each of five pairs of lemon juice trials (i.e., blocks 1-5). Salivary change across lemon juice trials was calculated by subtracting values for blocks 1 through 5 from baseline.
Dyslipidemic patients (n = 156; 83 men) who were non-smokers, did not have diabetes mellitus or evident vascular disease and were not on lipid-lowering or antihypertensive agents were recruited. Creatinine clearance (CrCl) was estimated using the Cockcroft-Gault equation. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equation. We estimated vascular risk using the Framingham equation.
Fat suppressed oblique sagittal images of the open and closed mouth were acquired, and MRI scanning parameters were applied.
After insertion of a femoral catheter under peripheral nerve stimulation control, 111 patients scheduled for total knee arthroplasty or tibial osteotomy were randomized to receive either pre-incisionnal (treatment) or postoperative (control) continuous femoral block. Anesthesia and postoperative management was standardized. An assessor blinded to the randomization process recorded early and late postoperative conditions (POC) which included pain scores, opioid demands, length of stay in Postoperative care unit and patients' satisfaction.
Retrospective chart review of 618 patients seen at our PH clinic from 1991 to June 2008. Data collection focused on patients diagnosed with CTEPH, D-dimer levels, demographics, clinical, and hemodynamics. We compared D-dimer levels in CTEPH patients or World Health Organization (WHO) diagnostic group 4 with PH patients in WHO group 1.
Lipids in the retina of normal and diabetic mice were trans-methylated with methanolic HCl. The esters so prepared were analyzed for fatty acids by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, qualitatively as well as quantitatively.
Microglia were collected from retinas of newborn rats, cultured and treated with LPS in vitro. Microglia were also activated by an optic nerve crush in vivo. Pretreatments with and without alpha-crystallin were performed in cultured cells, and by intravitreal injection in adult rats. Expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), nitric oxide (NO) and inducible NOS synthase (iNOS) were measured by RT-PCR, ELISA, Western blot and the nitrate reductase method.
Retinal neurons were cultured in 4 groups: (1) Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM), (2) DMEM containing lens extract, (3) DMEM containing macrophage-conditioned medium (MCM-D), (4) DMEM and medium from macrophages grown with lens extract (MCM-L). Neurite outgrowth and neuron survival time were observed. The density of retinal neurons with neurites and the longest neurites of the cells were measured on days 1, 3 and 5.
Of 15 adult rats used, 3 served as non-laser-treated controls. CNV was induced in the right eye of the remaining 12 rats by laser photocoagulation. These 12 rats were divided into two groups (n = 6 each) which were retrobulbarly injected with octreotide (50 miucrog/kg) or phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (0.15 ml) immediately and on day 3 after the first injection. Fluorescein angiography and quantitative analysis of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-choroidal flat mounts were performed 14 days after the operation to evaluate the changes in the CNV lesions. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to compare the changes shown by the octreotide-, PBS-, and non-laser-treated rats (n = 3 each) with regard to mRNA levels of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 in the RPE-choroidal complex.
S. epidermidis strains were isolated from patients with conjunctivitis (n = 23), endophthalmitis (n = 14) and corneal ulcers (n = 7). Minimum inhibition concentrations were determined by broth and agar dilution methods for moxifloxacin, gatifloxacin, balofloxacin, rufloxacin and pazufloxacin. Mutations were identified by sequencing the gyrA and parC genes, and their expression was determined by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.
Adult cats were perfused intracardially for 1, 5, 10, 15 and 30 min with physiological saline and were subsequently perfused with a mixture of 1% glutaraldehyde and 4% formaldehyde. After the fixation, the retinas were immunocytochemically examined.
We recruited 30 subjects with a clinical diagnosis of exudative AMD with newly diagnosed choroidal neovascularization (CNV), 30 subjects with dry AMD and 30 age- and sex-matched volunteers without AMD. The concentration of C3a-desArg complement compound was measured in the subjects' peripheral blood. We evaluated the association between the level of C3a-desArg and age, sex, smoking, atherosclerosis, and hypertension.
The digital camera has a compound lens consisting of two optical elements (a 90-dpt and a 20-dpt lens) attached to a 7.2-megapixel camera. White-light-emitting diodes are used to illuminate the fundus and reduce source reflection. The camera settings are set to candlelight mode, the optic zoom standardized to x2.4 and the focus is manually set to 3.0 m.
Western blot and immunocytochemistry were performed to confirm gene expression, the MTT assay to detect cell growth, flow cytometry to investigate the cell cycle and the TUNEL to detect cell apoptosis.
Histological, semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical studies were performed on skeletal muscle and myocardium of BALB/c mice infected with T. cruzi, RA strain.
The effect and mechanisms of ING4 on proliferation and apoptosis of U87MG were evaluated in vitro by MTT assay, flow-cytometric analysis, TUNEL assay, Western blot analysis and animal experiments.
Twenty-nine patients with pancreatic cancer (PC) and 43 with biliary tract cancer (BTC; 27 cases of bile duct cancer, 8 of gallbladder cancer and 8 of cancer of the papillary area) were included. ELISA was used to assess the concentrations of TS and DPD in cancerous and noncancerous tissues. All 82 patients were followed up at least 12 months after surgery. We compared patient survivals between the 2 groups, taking TS and DPD cutoff as median values, high versus low DPD and high versus low TS in the cancerous tissue of PC and BTC patients.
Small rat bowels were stored in the absence or presence of THP or its synthetic derivative lauryl-THP for 18 h at 4 degrees C. Several biochemical parameters were evaluated following isolated reperfusion in tissue grafts and/or effluent solution. Graft morphology was analyzed by electron microscopy. Ceramide was quantified as a potential target of THP action.
The authors retrospectively reviewed charts of patients with conservatively treated EDH at the Department of Neurosurgery, King Abdulla University Hospital, Irbid, Jordan, between August 2003 and October 2007. All patients had a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 14 or 15, and an initial computerized tomography (CT) scan demonstrating an EDH with or without skull fractures. Follow-up included neurological examination and brain CT.
Between July 1999 and August 2007, 59 children with posterior fossa tumours were surgically managed. Based on presenting neurology, imaging criteria and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure during ventriculostomy, patients were categorised into no (n = 16), mild (6), moderate (22) or severe (15) hydrocephalus on admission.
In the study, 27 patients (11 males and 16 females, aged 0-6 months) with congenital hydrocephalus were studied. CSF levels were obtained from the patients preoperatively and on postoperative days 3 and 30, and TCD was applied. The level of NGF was investigated in CSF by the ELISA method. The pulsatility index (PI) and resistive index (RI) were examined in the right middle cerebral artery by TCD.
Dysraphism was surgically created in 2 groups of 48 rat fetuses; group 1: control, and group 2: treated with corticosteroid. Each group was subdivided into fetuses with surgically created MM, controls and shams on day 18.5 of gestation (term = 22 days). Fetuses were harvested on day 21.5, examined for evidence of neurological deficits, and the following clinical parameters were registered: kyphosis, tail deformities, leg deformities, leg paralysis or paresis and pain perception. The fetuses were fixed for GFAP immunostaining.
A national random sample of 15-year-olds (n = 996) was followed up after four and twelve years respectively in a longitudinal study in Denmark; 614 persons completed questionnaires in all three waves. The main outcome measure was medicine use for headache within the past 14 days.
Annual, national suicide mortality rates from 1990 to 2006 for 10-19 year-olds in World Health Organisation (WHO) Mortality Stratum A countries were studied using the WHO mortality database. Departures from country-specific trends in 2004-2006 relative to overall trends 1990-2006 were calculated to estimate the impact of regulatory actions in 2003/4.
We conducted a case-control study among members of an integrated healthcare delivery system in Washington State. Cases (N = 641) were diagnosed with CRC between 2000 and 2003; controls (N = 641) were randomly selected from enrollees and matched to cases on age, sex, and length of enrollment. We used conditional logistic regression to estimate the odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for CRC associated with the use of any acid suppressive medication, proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) only, histamine receptor antagonists (H2 blockers) only, or both PPIs and H2 blockers in relation to the use of neither PPIs nor H2 blockers.
We obtained the complete Medicaid Analytic Extract (MAX) files for the State of Michigan between 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2003. We tracked the adoption of: aripiprazole, atomoxetine, escitalopram, methylphenidate OROS, and ziprasidone. We conducted retrospective, space-time analyses, scanning for clusters with high rates of prescribing. Chi(2) analyses were used to compare the attributes of patients living within clusters to patients living in the rest of the state for each medication. Clusters of utilization were identified via the spatial scan statistic. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was then used to compare the numbers of mental health professionals per capita in geographic areas that did and did not demonstrate clustering of prescriptions for new psychotropic medications.
This study was carried out in 62 hospitals in Jiangsu province, China, between May and August, 2007, using a closed and choice questionnaire. The data were entered using the EpiData3.1 software and analyzed by chi (2)-test, single-factor analysis, and multi-factor logistic regression using the SAS9.1 software.
Infants participated in the WHeezing Illnesses STudy LEidsche Rijn (WHISTLER), a prospective birth cohort on respiratory illnesses. Outcome was defined as having received a prescription of antibiotics or of anti-asthma medication for respiratory symptoms by a physician.
The Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) is a population-based prospective cohort study of 6814 US adults from 4 different ethnic groups. After excluding baseline users of ADM, we examined the relation between baseline depression and new use of ADM for 4 different ethnicities: African-Americans (n = 1822), Asians (n = 784) Caucasians (n = 2300), and Hispanics (n = 1405). Estimates of the association of ethnicity and ADM use were adjusted for age, study site, gender, Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), alcohol use, smoking, blood pressure, diabetes, education, and exercise. Non-random loss to follow-up was present and estimates were adjusted using inverse probability of censoring weighting (IPCW).
Eighty-four qualitative in-depth telephone interviews were conducted; 50 with health plan members, 21 with providers, and 13 with purchasers. Interviews focused on stakeholders' concerns about and recommendations for conducting CRTs in health plans.
A single center, retrospective cohort study examined different HAART regimens and total cholesterol (TC) levels. The primary outcomes were TC levels &gt; 180, &gt; 200 mg/dl. HAART was defined as multiple nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI), NRTI and protease inhibitor (PI) combinations (NRTI/PI), and NRTI and non-nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) combinations (NRTI/NNRTI). Controls were HIV-1 infected children while on no medications (No MED). Univariate and multivariable Cox regression models generated hazard ratios for each of the primary outcomes with duration of therapy in the model.
Data on 4,163,045 prescriptions of psychotropic drugs dispensed at all pharmacies in Norway during 2005 were extracted from The Norwegian Prescription Database (NorPD), including antipsychotics (ATC-code N05A), anxiolytics (N05B), hypnotics (N05C) and antidepressants (N06A). This information was merged with data concerning the 3857 general practitioners (GPs) from the Norwegian Regular GP Scheme.
We studied reports recorded in the French Pharmacovigilance database and the GERAP database over a 12-year period (1995-2006). For each report, we detailed the clinical features and skin tests used. Delayed or immediate-type allergic reactions and cross-reactivity between amide type local anesthetics were also analyzed.
A population-based cohort study was conducted in the IPCI database (1995-2007). The index cohort comprised all persons who started an anti-obesity drug. The reference cohort comprised up to six randomly sampled patients from the same GP practice with same index date. Baseline characteristics were assessed for both cohorts. The index cohort was followed for 1 year to study patterns of drug use. Unconditional logistic regression was used to calculate crude odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals.
For 143 well-known photosensitisers (e.g. tetracyclines, diuretics), we retrieved information on spectroscopic and molecular parameters, including: absorption maximum lambda(max), molar absorption coefficient epsilon, area under the absorption curve (AUC), molecular weight and configuration, hetero and aromatic halogen atoms, lipophilicity (log P) and acid/base status (pKa). In the WHO-ADR database, all reports with suspected adverse drug reactions of the study drugs were selected. We identified all reports on photosensitivity reactions and defined them as cases. All other reports were selected as non-cases. A case-non-case approach was performed to assess the spectroscopic and molecular exposure variables as a factor for photosensitivity reactions. Logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
Prospective, observational study for a period of 1 year in medical ICU of a tertiary care hospital. Relevant data of patients with ADRS were analysed. Characteristics of patients with and without ADRs were compared.
The 'physician preference' instrument correlates well with the treatment only if physician preferences affect the treatment received by a large fraction of patients. Yet, often there is a subgroup of patients whose treatment cannot be affected by physician's preferences. The larger this subgroup is, the weaker the instrument. We investigated the impact of weakening this instrument on the performance of IV estimates, by comparing risk difference estimates from the conventional and IV analyses in the presence of an unobserved confounder, for both continuous and binary outcomes.
The present study involves in-vitro autofluorescence monitoring of different human brain tumor samples to assess their spectroscopic properties. The autofluorescence measurement at four different excitation wavelengths 320, 370, 410, and 470 nm, were carried out for five different brain tumor types: glioma, astrocytoma, meningioma, pituitary adenoma, and schwannoma.
Adult male albino rats were divided into three groups: control rats, pilocarpinized rats (epileptic animal model), and pilocarpinized rats treated daily with laser irradiation (90 mW at 830 nm) for 7 d. The following parameters were assayed in cortex and hippocampus: amino acid neurotransmitters (excitatory: glutamic acid and aspartate; and inhibitory: gamma-aminobutyric acid [GABA], glycine, and taurine) by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), glucose content, and the activity of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), using a spectrophotometer.
Seventy Wistar rats were used and divided into seven groups of 10 rats each: group 1, sham laser treatment; group 2, which received irradiation at 1 point 5 cm from the flap's cranial base; group 3, which received irradiation at 2 points (5 and 7.5 cm from the flap's base); group 4, which received irradiation at 3 points (2.5, 5 and 7.5 cm from the flap's base); group 5, which received irradiation at 1 point 2.5 cm from the flap's base; group 6, which received irradiation at 2 points (2.5 and 5 cm from the flap's base); and group 7, which received irradiation at 1 point 7.5 cm from the flap's base. The animals were subjected to laser therapy at an energy density of 36 J/cm(2) for 72 sec immediately after surgery, and one time on each of the four subsequent days. The percentage of necrotic skin flap area was calculated on the seventh postoperative day using a paper template.
Digital analysis of standardized pre- and post-treatment digital photographs of a total of 90 maxillary incisors from 23 adult patients undergoing photodynamic bleaching was undertaken. The patients were treated by a visible green KTP laser (wavelength 532 nm) combined with a rhodamine-B photosensitizer gel (Smartbleach) applied to the teeth and activated for 30 sec. Each tooth underwent four cycles of 30 sec of laser exposure. Digital image analysis was undertaken in a blinded manner, and we examined changes in the four maxillary incisors in terms of blue pixel intensity (yellowness).
Dentine specimens prepared from extracted human third molars were randomly assigned to six groups, including one receiving phosphoric acid etching, and five others with different laser parameters: 5 W for 30 sec, 2.5 W for 30 sec, 2.5 W for 60 sec, 1.5 W for 30 sec, and 1.5 W for 100 sec. Surface morphology was examined using a scanning electron microscope (SEM). Average roughness (Ra) was determined with a profilometer. Bonding of resin composites to the dentine specimens was tested in shear mode.
A prospective blind study was made of 60 Sprague-Dawley rats divided into two groups after the creation of tongue lesions using the CO(2) laser. Nothing was applied to the resulting wounds in the first group, while PRGF was applied to the 30 wounds in the second group. Wound re-epithelialization and inflammation were measured after 7, 14, and 28 d.
Two Y-TZP materials were evaluated: Cercon Smart Ceramics and Procera Zirconia. Thirty plates from each ceramic material were randomly divided into five groups according to the surface treatment received (none [control], air abrasion, or irradiation with the Er:YAG laser at three different energy intensities [200, 400, or 600 mJ]). After the surface treatments, the ceramic plates were gold-coated and their surface roughness (Ra, microm) was measured using confocal microscopy. For each ceramic system, the surface roughness was analyzed through two-way ANOVA/Tukey's test, with a 5% significance level. Changes in the morphological characteristics of the ceramics were examined through light and scanning electron microscopy.
Twenty healthy women scheduled for cesarean section were randomly divided into two groups: an LLLT group and a control group. LLLT was delivered as follows: (1) irradiation with 980 nm (100 mW, 3.3 J/cm(2), total energy 60 J), and 650 nm (30 mW, 1.5 J/cm(2), total energy 27 J) to the incision line, and (2) intravenous laser irradiation at 2.5 mW and 650 nm for 15 min on three consecutive postoperative days. Except for LLLT, all the therapeutic conditions in both groups were identical. Blood prolactin levels were measured in the groups on the third postoperative day, and tissue samples were taken from the wound margins for histological evaluation on the 10th postoperative day.
A double-blind controlled clinical trial was performed on 152 patients with knee pain who were randomly assigned into two different groups. Group I patients (n = 76) received interferential laser therapy generated by two identical laser probes located opposite each other on the knee joint. Group II patients (n = 76) received one live probe in conventional laser therapy and one dummy probe. The device used in both groups was an AlGaAs laser (wavelength 810 nm, power 100 mW, in continuous mode). Fifteen laser sessions were applied transcutaneously on 5 knee points (6 J/point) per session. In addition, patients in both groups received a quadriceps strength program based on isometric exercises. A visual analogue scale (VAS) was used for pain evaluation in different situations, such as in standing, in knee flexion/extension, and when going up and down stairs. VAS pain scores were evaluated before, in the middle of, and after treatment.
MSCs were irradiated with a blue laser (wavelength 405 nm) for 180 sec via a fiber attached to the bottom of the culture dish. After laser irradiation, the MSCs were incubated in osteogenic differentiation medium for 5 d. After laser irradiation, circadian rhythm protein CRY1 was immunostained and histochemical staining for extracellular calcification was observed.
Twenty-four extracted or exfoliated caries-free deciduous molars were divided into six groups: control group (no treatment; n = 8); infrared laser treatment (L; n = 8) (810 nm at 100 mW/cm(2) for 90 sec); infrared diode laser irradiation (810 nm at 100 mW/cm(2) for 90 sec) and photoabsorbing cream (IVL; n = 8); photoabsorbing cream alone (IV; n = 8); infrared diode laser irradiation (810 nm at 100 mW/cm(2) for 90 sec) and fluorinated photoabsorbing agent (IVLF; n = 8); and fluorinated photoabsorbing agent alone (IVF; n = 8). Samples were analyzed using FT-Raman spectroscopy before and after pH cycling cariogenic challenge.
This study was carried out to elucidate the effects of PDT in a KB oral cancer cell line using hematoporphyrin with irradiation at 635 nm and 5 mW/cm(2). After irradiation, the MTT reduction method, agarose gel electrophoresis, flow cytometry, and Diff-Quick staining were performed. The intracellular ROS level was measured by DCF-DA. Intracellular hematoporphyrin was monitored with a confocal microscope, and Western blot and caspase activity assays were performed.
One hundred nineteen permanent molars were assessed by two experienced dentists using the LF and the LFpen devices, both with and without PVC wrapping. The teeth were histologically prepared and assessed for caries extension.
Patients with unilateral LET for at least 4 wk were sequentially allocated to receive either an exercise program with LLLT or an exercise program with polarized polychromatic non-coherent light. The exercise program consisted of eccentric and static stretching exercises of wrist extensors. In the LLLT group a 904-nm Ga-As laser was used in continuous mode, and the power density was 130 mW/cm(2), and the dose was 0.585 J/point. In the group receiving polarized polychromatic non-coherent light the Bioptron 2 was used to administer the dose perpendicularly to the lateral epicondyle at three points at an operating distance of 5-10 cm for 6 min at each position. The outcome measures were pain and function and were evaluated at baseline, at the end of the treatment (week 4), and 3 mo after the end of treatment (week 16).
The authors detail their experience with welding using an Nd:YAG fiberoptic-delivered laser that is normally used for dental therapy.
Irradiation was performed at two time points: T0 (24 h after cell culture) and T48 (48 h after the first irradiation). Cellular viability was assessed using an MTT assay at the following times: T0 (first irradiation), T6 (6 h after the first irradiation), T12 (12 h after the first irradiation), T24 (24 h after the first irradiation), T48 (48 h after the first irradiation), and T72 (72 h after the first irradiation). The results were analyzed using Graphpad Prism software.
One hundred and sixty samples of human caries-free premolars were immersed in pH-cycling solution (pH = 5) for 2 d for decalcified lesion formation. Then the tooth samples were randomly divided into eight groups and the lesions were treated using the different modalities: a control group, an APF only group, an APF = Nd:YAG laser group, and APF = CO(2) laser group, an Nd:YAG laser = APF group, a CO(2) laser = APF group, a CO(2) laser only group, and an Nd:YAG laser only group. The energy density setting for the two types of lasers was 83.33 J/cm(2). After treatment the tooth samples were immersed in pH-cycling solution again for 2 d for acid challenge. As for the acid-resistance evaluation, the calcium concentration dissolved from the enamel surface was analyzed by an electrolyte analyzer. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to assess morphologic changes and polarized light microscopy (PLM) was used to evaluate optical changes in the lesions.
L929 fibroblast cell cultures were irradiated with LLLT and subjected to LIPUS. Cultures irradiated with the laser (904 nm) were divided into three groups: group I, control (no irradiation); group II, irradiated at 6 J/cm(2); and group III, irradiated at 50 mJ/cm(2). Cultures subjected to ultrasound were divided into five groups: group I, control (no LIPUS); group II, LIPUS at 0.2 W/cm(2) in pulsed mode at 10% (1:9 duty cycle); group III, LIPUS at 0.6 W/cm(2) in pulsed mode at 10% (1:9 duty cycle); group IV, LIPUS at 0.2 W/cm(2) in pulsed mode at 20% (2:8 duty cycle); and group V, LIPUS at 0.6 W/cm(2) in pulsed mode at 20% (2:8 duty cycle). Each group was irradiated at 24-h intervals, with the following post-treatment incubation times: 24, 48, and 72 h. The effects of LLLT and LIPUS on the cytoskeleton and endoplasmic reticulum was evaluated by the use of fluorescent probes and with fluorescence microscopy analysis.
Twenty-five neuropsychological studies comparing subjects with adult ADHD and healthy controls were evaluated. Statistical effect size was determined to characterize the difference between ADHD and control subjects. Meta-regression analysis was applied to investigate whether the difference between ADHD and control subjects varied as a function of age and gender across studies.
We examined the hemodynamics of the PFC during resting and cognitive tasks in 29 patients with bipolar disorder and 27 healthy controls, matched for age, verbal abilities and education. The cognitive test battery consisted of letter and category fluency (LF and CF), Sets A and B of the Raven's Colored Progressive Matrices (RCPM-A and RCPM-B) and the letter cancellation test (LCT). The tissue oxygenation index (TOI), the ratio of oxygenated hemoglobin (HbO2) concentration to total hemoglobin concentration, was measured in the bilateral PFC by spatially resolved near-infrared spectroscopy. Changes in HbO2 concentration were also measured.
Subjects included 22 right-handed, non-mentally retarded boys with autism and 22 gender- and age-matched controls. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were obtained using a 1.5-T scanner and volumetric measurements were performed using the BRAINS2 software package. Gray- and white-matter volumes were measured using a semi-automated segmentation process.
A subset of 2776 participants was selected from the Canadian National Longitudinal Survey of Children and Youth (NLSCY). Late-adolescence suicidal behaviors and risk factors were self-reported. The 2001 Canadian Census was used to characterize neighborhoods during early and middle adolescence. Late-childhood family and individual controls were assessed through parent-report.
Savant calendar calculators with autism (ACC, n=3), healthy calendar calculators (HCC, n=3), non-savant subjects with autism (n=6) and healthy calendar calculator laymen (n=18) were included in the study. All participants calculated dates of the present (current month). In addition, ACC and HCC also calculated dates of the past and future 50 years.
In this cross-sectional study we recruited consecutive psychiatric admissions to the Maudsley Hospital, London. We carried out structured assessments of decision making using the MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool for Treatment (MacCAT-T), resulting in a clinical judgement about capacity status. We analysed associations with a range of sociodemographic and clinical variables, including insight score on the Expanded Schedule for the Assessment of Insight (SAI-E). The same variables were compared in an analysis stratified according to diagnostic group: psychotic disorders/bipolar affective disorder (BPAD)/non-psychotic disorders.
We analysed cross-sectional data from a large, randomly selected cohort of UK military personnel deployed to Iraq (n=5869). Two markers of PCS were generated: 'PCS symptoms' (indicating the presence of mTBI-related symptoms: none, 1-2, 3+) and 'PCS symptom severity' (indicating the presence of mTBI-related symptoms at either a moderate or severe level of severity: none, 1-2, 3+).
Data came from the National Comorbidity Survey Replication (NCS-R), a nationally representative US household survey that retrospectively assessed lifetime history and age of onset of DSM-IV mental and substance disorders. Survival analysis using retrospective age-of-onset reports was used to estimate associations of mental disorders with subsequent substance dependence. Simulations based on the models estimated effect sizes in several hypothetical intervention scenarios.
A decision analysis method was used to estimate the number of suicides prevented or induced by ADT in children and adolescents (10-19 years old), adults (20-64 years old) and the elderly (65 years) diagnosed with major depression. The impact of gender and parasuicide history on the findings was explored within each age group. Sensitivity analyses were used to assess the robustness of the models.
Cross-sectional data were taken from a national mental health survey including 5326 subjects aged 8-19 years in the UK. The outcomes were prevalence and characteristics of mood lability and its associations with psychopathology and overall impairment.
Subjects were 170 youth with BPD (mean age 12.3 years), their 118 non-mood-disordered siblings and 79 non-mood-disordered controls. Groups were compared on a battery of neuropsychological tests from the Wechsler Intelligence Scales, the Stroop Color Word Test, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure (ROCF), an auditory working memory Continuous Performance Test (CPT) and the California Verbal Learning Test-Children's Version (CVLT-C). Measures were factor analyzed for data reduction purposes. All analyses controlled for age, sex and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Suicide rates were calculated over the period 1994-2006 in three Bali regencies to determine whether suicide increased in the period following the first Bali bombings. Poisson regression and time-series models were used to assess the change in suicide rates by sex, age and area in the periods before and after October 2002.
The intra-dimensional/extra-dimensional (IDED) set-shifting task, part of the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB), was administered to 30 patients with schizophrenia, 47 with bipolar disorder and a group of 44 unaffected controls. EDS and RL errors were compared between the groups and related to measures of current and past psychiatric symptoms and medication.
We operationalized high IQ as having a full-scale IQ120. We identified 53 adults with a high IQ who did not have ADHD and 64 adults with a high IQ who met diagnostic criteria for ADHD. Groups did not differ on IQ, socio-economic status or gender.
A total of 301 subjects were included in this study, including 94 twin pairs, 31 bipolar families, and 39 unrelated healthy controls. Statistical analyses were based on structural equation modelling.
Participants in the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Collaborative Depression Study (CDS) who completed at least 20 years of follow-up and who met study criteria for bipolar I or schizo-affective manic disorder, before intake or during follow-up, were divided by age at intake into youngest (18-29 years, n=56), middle (30-44 years, n=68) and oldest (&gt;44 years, n=24) groups.
Representation, its shortcomings and the way they may affect clinical/research programs undergo a conceptual analysis, which shows how representational-founded semiology leave out information that is essential for symptom specificity and correct symptom assessment. Schizophrenic autism, delusional perception and axial syndromes are studied as examples of both the difficulties that have arisen and possible ways of dealing with them.
Participants were 68 young persons with major depressive disorder. Twenty-six patients also met the criteria of attenuated or brief limited intermittent psychotic symptoms according to the Comprehensive Assessment of At Risk Mental States (CAARMS) criteria. Subjective experiences were assessed with the Bonn Scale for the Assessment of Basic Symptoms (BSABS). Recognition of complex social emotions and mental states was assessed using the 'Reading the Mind in the Eyes' test.
In the study,95 participants with injuries from traffic accidents were evaluated at 4 different times: in the beginning, and after 3, 6 and 12 months.
We administered the PANSS to subjects with schizophrenia (n = 305), organic brain disease (OBD, n = 66) and major depressive disorder (MDD, n = 75). Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was used to establish if the PANSS items for negative symptoms and for depression fit the hypothesized factor structure and if the item factor loadings were similar among the diagnostic groups.
In this study we examined the predictability of DMC in a nonclinical sample consisting of 351 Japanese company employees, with temperament and melancholic type personality as measured by the Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego and the Munich Personality Test. We also analyzed the mediating roles of dysfunctional attitudes and coping styles. Subjects were assessed for depressive mood, temperament and personality traits in May 2002 (time 1) and May 2004 (time 2), and dysfunctional attitudes and coping styles at time 2.
110 women and 49 men with BPD were assessed with the computer-based version of the Munich-Composite International Diagnostic Interview and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Personality Disorders. Gender differences were investigated for the following outcomes: (a) lifetime, 12-month and 4-week prevalence of axis I disorders; (b) axis II disorders, and (c) DSM-IV BPD diagnostic criteria.
Relatively intellectually preserved schizophrenia patients (n = 31) exhibiting from no to severe positive FTD completed a self-report scale of FTD, a scale of insight as well as several tests of executive and semantic function. The patients' carers completed another scale of FTD to assess the patients' speech.
Prospective cross-sectional cohort study with double CAM assessment by a medical and nonmedical rater.
Random sample of frail, cognitively impaired elderly with acute disease requiring hospital care.
A total of 39 frail elderly, mean age 83 +/- 7 years, 72% (n = 28) female, with cognitive impairments, a high prevalence of dementia (86%, n = 33) and a significant risk of delirium. Of these, 13 revealed delirium, which was superimposed on dementia in 11.
A translated and operationalized version of the CAM was validated against a neuropsychiatric and geriatric consensus reference standard based on DSM-IV. Additional measures included the Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire, the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Delirium Index for cognitive impairment severity, the Informant Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline for dementia diagnosis and the Barthel Index, illness severity (Cumulative Illness Rating Scale) and medication.
The sample included 521 (42 % male) adult relatives, 18-86 years of age, from five large families in the Southwest Ohio Family Study.
Sport, leisure and work PA were self-reported (Baecke Questionnaire of Habitual Physical Activity). Total body and trunk adiposity, including percentage body fat (%BF), were measured using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Abdominal visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue mass were measured using MRI.
Subjects (n 29 079) were selected by cluster sampling from fourteen Chinese general populations. Weight, height, waist circumference (WC), hip circumference and blood pressure were measured for each participant. BMI, waist:hip ratio (WHR), waist:stature ratio (WSR) and conicity index (CI) were calculated. Pearson correlation, multiple logistic regression, multivariate linear regression and receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses were used.
Theory-based behavioural nutrition and physical activity interventions aim at changing mediating variables that are hypothesized to be responsible for changes in the outcome of interest. MVA are useful because they help to identify the most promising theoretical approaches, mediators and intervention components for behaviour change. However, the current literature suggests that MVA are often inappropriately conducted, poorly understood and inadequately presented. Main problems encountered in the published literature are explained and suggestions for overcoming weaknesses of current practice are proposed.
The study employed a prospective design using three waves of data from 'Rural Families Speak', a multi-state study of low-income rural families in the USA. Food insecurity was measured using the Core Food Security Module and depression was measured using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale. A structural equation model was fit to the data using the AMOS software package.
Sixteen states in the USA (California, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, West Virginia, Wyoming) between 2000 and 2002.
Subjects included 413 women with at least one child under the age of 13 years living in the home.
The study was cross-sectional, comprising a random sample of 3151 Danish adults aged 18-75 years. Dietary intake was estimated using a 7 d pre-coded food diary. Information on social background, leisure-time physical activity, height, body weight and intention to eat healthy was obtained by in-person interviews. Logistic regression models were used to explore the independent effects of energy intake, leisure-time physical activity, food variety, BMI, age, gender, education, household income, location of residence and intention to eat healthy on the likelihood to have high diet quality measured by an index based on the intake of dietary fibre and saturated fat.
A cross-sectional, descriptive correlation design was utilized. A convenience sample of 162 community older adults (aged &gt; or = 65 years) were administered three questionnaires, which were used to obtain demographic characteristics, nutritional status (Mini Nutritional Assessment, MNA) and functional status (Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, IADL).
Cross-sectional study. Mothers' recall of both the schoolchild's intake and her own intake on the previous day were compared with intakes that were weighed by an interviewer in the home.
Karurumo location of Embu District in Kenya.
A total of forty-two sets of grade 1 students and their mothers.
Estimates of self-report bias were obtained from a linear regression analysis and the magnitude of the discrepancy was studied for demographic groups (based on gender, race and educational attainment), weight status, number of years from the age of the reported weight and current age of the respondent.
A subset of 6101 individuals from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Epidemiological Follow-Up constituted the study sample.
A nationally representative, cross-sectional, two-stage stratified cluster sample survey enrolled 4549 under-fives from 6707 households. Logistic regression was used to determine individual risk factors in bivariate and multivariate analyses.
Survey, cross-sectional.
Weight and height were measured in 12,556 children taking part in the obligatory school entrance health examination 2004-5 and 2005-6 in three urban and three rural Bavarian regions. Their parents were asked to answer a questionnaire with a set of questions on physical activity.
Survey of 300 mothers of 2-year-old children from areas of high deprivation in Scotland (response rate 81 %). A diet quality score was derived from reported consumption of carbohydrates, protein, fruit and vegetables, dairy products and restriction of sugary fatty foods.
Dietary patterns were assessed using FFQ on a representative sample (n 1200) of the BI and GI (n 1324) adult population. A Mediterranean Diet Score (MDS) was calculated according to the consumption of nine MDP components: (i) with a beneficial effect on health, i.e. vegetables, fruits and nuts, cereals, legumes, fish and shellfish, MUFA:SFA ratio, and moderate alcohol consumption; and (ii) with a detrimental effect on health, i.e. meat and meat products, and milk and dairy products. Persons with consumption of beneficial components below the median (GI plus BI) received a value of 0 and those with consumption above the median a value of 1. Persons with below-median consumption of detrimental components received a value of 1 and above-median consumption a value of 0. For alcohol, a value of 1 was given to consumptions of 10-50 g/d (men) and 5-25 g/d (women). The range of the MDS was 0-9, with higher scores indicating greater adherence to the MDP.
A one-year community-based longitudinal study.
A rural union of Bhaluka Upazila, Mymensingh, located 110 km north-west of Dhaka City, the capital of Bangladesh.ParticipantsA total of 1104 normotensive, non-smoking pregnant women who attended Community Nutrition Centres were studied from first presentation at the centre until child delivery.
Time trends analysis with data from repeated dietary surveys and death registration.
Hong Kong SAR, People's Republic of China.
A total of 3096 men and women aged 40-69 years who participated in territory-wide surveys in 1995 or 2003 were included in the analysis of changes in dietary fish intake; all adults aged 40-69 years in Hong Kong were included in the analysis of time trends of CHD mortality.
A review of the literature and consideration of the determinants of effective public health nutrition practice has been used to inform the development of a conceptual framework for capacity building in the context of public health nutrition practice.
Participating schoolchildren (mean age 9.9 years at baseline) and their parents completed parallel questionnaires at baseline, at 1-year and at 2-year follow-up, including questions on usual F&amp;V intake of the child, potential behavioural determinants, their appreciation of the project and general demographics. Primary outcomes were usual F&amp;V intakes as assessed by parent and child self-reported food frequency measures. Secondary outcome measures were taste preference, knowledge of daily recommendations, availability and accessibility for fruit intake. Multilevel linear regression analyses were used to assess differences at second follow-up adjusted for baseline values between control and intervention groups.
Reports were available for 346 intervention children (148 parents) and 425 control children (287 parents).
Cross-sectional food consumption data from the Korean National Nutrition Survey Reports (KNNSR) of South Korea at four separate time points (1969, 1978, 1988 and 1998) were used to calculate Zn, Ca and phytate intakes using various food composition tables, databases and literature values. Nutrient values in local foods were cited from their analysed values.
Multiple linear regression analyses were used to test (i) the relationships between 30 d fish frequency consumption and five CHD risk markers, i.e. HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, TAG and C-reactive protein (CRP); and (ii) if total blood Hg attenuated any associations between fish consumption and CHD risk markers in non-pregnant, non-diabetic females aged 16-49 years.
We used data of 50 905 adults aged 18-79 years in the 2002 China National Nutrition and Health Survey. Recommended Chinese cut-off values were used for BMI (24 kg/m2) and waist circumference (WC; 85 cm in men, 80 cm in women). Optimal cut-offs for waist:height ratio (WHtR) were determined from analyses of receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves.
A survey of all margarines sold in major supermarkets in the Greater Toronto area was conducted in 2006, and results were compared with those of a similar survey conducted in 2002. Average fat composition, proportion of 'trans fat-free' margarines and average prices of margarines were compared. A general linear model procedure was used to compare the relationship between price and fat composition in 2002 and 2006.
Cross-sectional two-site study.
A total of 248 children aged 3-12 years from the two islands participated in the survey. Body weight and height were recorded and Z-scores were calculated. A 3 d food record was collected for each child, computer-analysed and compared with the Recommended Daily Allowances (RDA). Intakes &lt; or =70 % of the RDA were considered inadequate.
Low-income pregnant women (n 596) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, who enrolled in a cohort study at &lt;20 weeks' gestation. These women reported usual dietary intake in the three months around conception on an FFQ. Cereal consumers were women who reported consuming any dry cereal at least three times per week. High risk for nutrient inadequacy was defined as intake less than the Estimated Average Requirement.
Surveillance data collected from 1990 to 1999 were analysed. Height-for-age Z-scores were calculated using three norms: the WHO standards, the 1978 National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) reference and the 1990 British growth reference (UK90).
Bangladesh.
Boys and girls aged 6-59 months (n 504 358).
Monetary diet cost (Japanese yen/1000 kJ) was calculated based on dietary intake information from a self-administered, comprehensive diet history questionnaire using retail food prices. Biomarker-based estimates of nutrient intake (percentage of energy for protein and mg/1000 kJ for K and Na) were estimated based on 24 h urinary excretion and estimated energy expenditure.
A total of fifteen universities and colleges in Japan.
A total of 1046 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-22 years.
Monetary cost of dietary energy was estimated based on dietary intake assessed by a self-administered diet history questionnaire and retail food prices. Body height and weight, from which BMI was derived, waist circumference and blood pressure were measured and fasting blood samples were collected for biochemical measurements.
A total of fifteen universities and colleges in Japan.
A total of 1136 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-22 years.
Food insecurity status was based on Health Canada's revised interpretation of responses to the US Household Food Security Survey Module. Logistic regression was used to assess if Aboriginal households were at higher risk for food insecurity than non-Aboriginal households, adjusting for household sociodemographic factors.
Canada.
Households (n 35,107), 1528 Aboriginal and 33 579 non-Aboriginal.
A representative sample of 2287 children aged 2-5 years was examined (GENESIS study). Mothers' perceptions of their child's weight status and the children's and mothers' anthropometric and other characteristics (sociodemographic and lifestyle) were recorded.
A non-random, cross-sectional survey using a questionnaire with both pre-coded and open-ended questions.
Ninety-one establishments working in various fields more or less related to nutrition responded (response rate of 45 %).
A cross-sectional survey was performed in Iceland as a part of the Pro Children cross-Europe survey. Children's usual fruit and vegetable intake and its determinants were assessed through self-reports from the children (n 963) and their parents' reports.
The study enrolled 1317 (598 male, 719 female) adolescents aged 15-19 years using multistage, nationally representative sampling. Age-specific prevalence calculation used internal Z-score lines connecting with the WHO adult cut-off points. Logistic regression was used to examine the association of overweight or high WC with fast-food and sweetened beverage consumption, adjusting for potential confounders.
Cross-sectional study.
Twenty schools in Jena (100,000 inhabitants), south-east Germany.
A total of 2054 schoolchildren aged 7-14 years with information on BMI standard deviation score (BMI-SDS) and weight status (based on German reference values), of whom 1571 had additional information about their parents (parental education and employment status, weight status according to WHO guidelines) and meal patterns (school lunch participation rate, meal frequencies, breakfast consumption and frequency of family meals).
A retrospective cohort analysis on all primary elective THA patients between 1996 and 2004. Primary outcomes investigated using regression analyses included length of stay (LOS) and costs (US dollars).
Mayo Clinic Rochester, a tertiary care centre.
Patients were stratified by pre-operative BMI as normal (18.5-24.9 kg/m(2)), overweight (25.0-29.9 kg/m(2)), obese (30.0-34.9 kg/m(2)) and morbidly obese (&gt; or =35.0 kg/m(2)). Of 5642 patients, 1362 (24.1 %) patients had a normal BMI, 2146 (38.0 %) were overweight, 1342 (23.8 %) were obese and 792 (14.0 %) were morbidly obese.
We examined image quality on CT exams performed in patients with hip arthroplasties as well as other types of implanted metal orthopedic devices. The exam raw data were reconstructed using two different methods, the standard filtered backprojection (FBP) program and the MAR program. Images were evaluated for quality of the metal-cement-bone interfaces, trabeculae &lt; or = 1 cm from the metal, trabeculae 5 cm apart from the metal, streak artifact, and overall soft tissue detail. The Wilcoxon Rank Sum test was used to compare the image scores from the large and small prostheses. Interobserver agreement was calculated.
A retrospective billing database search identified 544 patients who had been diagnosed with patellar instability over a 13-year period. One hundred twenty-eight patients met the inclusion criteria. After review by a staff orthopedic surgeon and two musculoskeletal radiologists, 28 patients were found to have medial patellar ossification. The size and location of medial patellar ossification was recorded.
From 122 patients with histologically proven enchondromas and two patients without histology but with radiologic and clinical follow-up, 11 patients with small, eccentrically located chondromas in the long bones had cross-sectional imaging available. The lesions were evaluated for location, size, presence, and degree of cortical scalloping. The patient's medical charts and microscope slides were reviewed for relevant clinical history, clinical management, and histology.
A multiinstitutional retrospective review was performed on seven patients. The patient population consisted of one family with an affected mother and two siblings and four unrelated patients; there were one adult, aged 40 years, and six children, ranging in age from 3 to 12 years. The gender ratio of females to males was 5 to 2. We reviewed the clinical data and skeletal surveys and focused on radiographs of the pelvis, knees, hands, and spine.
Optimized MRI sequences for cartilage imaging at 3.0 T were tailored for 7.0 T: an intermediate-weighted fast spin-echo (IM-w FSE), a fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition (FIESTA) and a T1-weighted 3D high-spatial-resolution volumetric fat-suppressed spoiled gradient-echo (SPGR) sequence. Three healthy subjects and seven patients with mild OA were examined. Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), diagnostic confidence in assessing cartilage abnormalities, and image quality were determined. Abnormalities were assessed with the whole organ magnetic resonance imaging score (WORMS). Focal cartilage lesions and bone marrow edema pattern (BMEP) were also quantified.
Ten healthy volunteers (mean age, 32.4 years) and 12 patients who underwent MACT of the ankle joint (mean age, 32.8 years) were included. In order to evaluate possible maturation effects, patients were separated into short-term (6-13 months) and long-term (20-54 months) follow-up cohorts. MRI was performed on a 3.0-T magnetic resonance (MR) scanner using a new dedicated eight-channel foot-and-ankle coil. Using high-resolution morphological MRI, the magnetic resonance observation of cartilage repair tissue (MOCART) score was assessed. For biochemical MRI, T2 mapping, T2* mapping, and DWI were obtained. Region-of-interest analysis was performed within native cartilage of the volunteers and control cartilage as well as cartilage repair tissue in the patients subsequent to MACT.
Twenty-six patients were identified retrospectively as having comparative 1.5 and 3.0 T MR studies of the knee within an average of 102 days. Standard protocols included T1-weighted and fat-saturated intermediate-weighted fast spin-echo sequences in three planes; sequence parameters had been adjusted to account for differences in relaxation at 3.0 T. Arthroscopy was performed in 19 patients. Four radiologists reviewed each study independently, scored image quality, and analyzed pathological findings. Sensitivities, specificities, and accuracies in diagnosing cartilage lesions were calculated in the 19 patients with arthroscopy, and differences between 1.5 and 3.0 T exams were compared using paired Student's t tests with a significance threshold of p &lt; 0.05.
Case report.
Spinal Cord Injury Center, Orthopaedic University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
The authors report on a 15-year-old boy with progressive incomplete spastic paraplegia presenting segmental dysplastic thoracic spinous processes and Scheuermann's disease. The magnetic resonance imaging showed a kyphotic angulation at T 5/6 and signs of myelopathy. Hypoplastic thoracic processes and hypoplastic paraspinal muscles in the upper thoracic spine were observed intraoperatively. In this case, dorsoventral stabilization from T 4-7 was performed and the neurological outcome improved at follow-up (6 months).
Measurement of haemodynamic responses, cutaneous blood flow and sweat release during penile vibratory stimulation (PVS) in spinal cord-injured men.
Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Australia.
Ten spinal cord-injured men with injuries ranging from C3 to T6.
Continuous arterial pressure, intermittent auscultation, heart rate (HR), respiration, cutaneous blood flow and sweat release from both finger and toe were recorded during PVS.
Investigational technique evaluation.
Spinal Cord Injury Centers Asia.
Protocol, equipment and practical performance of the one-channel cystometry as used in Ho Chi Minh City and Chiang Mai were studied.
Prospective cohort study on patients presenting with I-TM was carried out inpatients of Infectious and Neurologic Disease Clinics, Italy.
Over an 8-year period, we recruited 13 patients with I-TM and 16 with P-TM. The patients were followed-up for at least 3 years with repeated brain and spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations, multimodal evoked potentials and serum screen for connectivitis. Relapses were defined on clinical and imaging criteria.
Cross-sectional.
Centre for Health Promotion and Rehabilitation at McMaster University, School of Kinesiology and Health Studies at Queen's University.
Forty-eight participants completed the Physical Activity Recall Assessment for People with Spinal Cord Injury (PARA-SCI) and a fitness test assessing cardiovascular fitness (VO(2max) and peak power output (Po)). The most commonly reported ADL were extracted from the PARA-SCI data for analysis.
Retrospective descriptive study.
German university hospital.
By immunohistochemical staining, the frequency and intensity of P(2)X(2) expression in bladder specimens from 15 patients with suprasacral spinal cord lesion were compared to those from 11 patients with bladder disorders not related to spinal cord injury (overactive bladder: n=6; chronic non-obstructive retention: n=2; bladder tumour: n=3).
Prospective multicenter longitudinal cohort study.
European multicenter study of human SCI (EM-SCI).
In 273 eligible patients with traumatic SCI, acute (0-15 days) and chronic phase (6 or 12 months) AIS grades, timed up and go (TUG) test and 10-m walk test (10MWT) outcome measurements were analyzed. Subanalysis of those patients who did have AIS conversion was performed to assess its relation with functional ambulatory outcomes.
Long-term follow-up study.
Department of Surgery P, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark.
Between 1994 and 2007, 211 (115 female) patients with NBD (age: 7-81 years (median 49)) were introduced to TAI. One hundred and seventy-three patients had spinal cord injury and 38 had other neurological disorders. Data were obtained from hospital records and a mailed questionnaire. Treatment was considered successful in patients still using TAI, patients who had used TAI until they died and patients whose symptoms had resolved while using TAI.
Non-randomized pilot trial.
Outpatient SCI clinic in a Veterans Affairs hospital (USA).
Participants had neurogenic bladders secondary to SCI, were practicing ICP, had experienced at least one UTI and had documented bacteruria within the past year. All participants received a urinary catheter that had been pre-inoculated with E. coli 83972. The catheter was left in place for 3 days and then removed. Participants were followed with urine cultures and telephone calls weekly for 28 days and then monthly until E. coli 83972 was lost from the urine. Outcome measures were (1) the rate of successful bladder colonization, defined as the detection (&gt;or=10(2) cfu ml(-1)) of E. coli 83972 in urine cultures for &gt;3 days after catheter removal and (2) the rate of symptomatic UTI during colonization with E. coli 83972.
Literature review.
MEDLINE was searched from 1966 to 2008 to identify publications concerning biomarkers in traumatic SCI.
PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register were searched. All identified papers were read by title, abstract and full-length article when relevant. Hand search of the articles' sources identified additional papers. For included studies, the level of evidence was determined.
All experiments were performed at the Plataforma Solar de Almería, located in the Tabernas Desert (Southern Spain) in July and October 2007. Turbid water samples [5, 100 and 300 nephelometric turbidity units (NTU)] were prepared by addition of red soil to distilled water, and then spiked with purified C. parvum oocysts. PET bottles containing the contaminated turbid waters were exposed to full sunlight for 4, 8 and 12 h. The samples were then concentrated by filtration and the oocyst viability was determined by inclusion/exclusion of the fluorogenic vital dye propidium iodide. Results After an exposure time of 12 h (cumulative global dose of 28.28 MJ/m(2); cumulative UV dose of 1037.06 kJ/m(2)) the oocyst viabilities were 11.54%, 25.96%, 41.50% and 52.80% for turbidity levels of 0, 5, 100 and 300 NTU, respectively, being significantly lower than the viability of the initial isolate (P &lt; 0.01).
Case-control study; we compared hospital-based typhoid cases defined as fever&gt;38 degrees C for &gt;or=3 days with four-fold rise in 'O' antibodies on paired sera (Widal) with community, age and neighbourhood matched controls. We obtained information on drinking water, fruits, vegetables, milk products and sanitation; and calculated matched odds ratios (MOR) and attributable fractions in the population (AFP) for the risk factors or failure to use prevention measures.
We studied 3642 pregnant women of all gravidities and gestational age of 18-32 weeks who attended an antenatal clinic in the Kassena-Nankana district of Ghana between June 2004 and July 2006. Blood samples were examined for haemoglobin concentrations and parasitaemia, and we obtained socio-demographic data, an obstetric history, information on their past and current state of health and bed net use.
After extensive disease risk mapping, 16 clusters with high VL transmission were selected in Bihar. An exhaustive census of all households in the clusters was conducted and socio-economic household characteristics were documented by questionnaire. Data on the general Bihar population taken from the National Family Health Survey of India were used for comparison. An asset index was developed based on Principal Components Analysis and the distribution of this asset index for the VL communities was compared with that of the general population of Bihar.
Published and unpublished studies (1986-2008) were identified through electronic databases, hand searching and contacting experts.
A multi-phase Richards model was fitted to weekly cumulative dengue data to pinpoint the turning points of the outbreak. We obtained the 'initial' reproduction numbers for the two waves of the outbreak. By means of correlation analysis we explored the possible impact of climatological events on the occurrence of turning points.
As MDG indicators we selected: (i) moderate to severe and severe underweight in children under 5 years old; (ii) immunization against measles in 1-year olds; (iii) births attended by skilled health professionals and (iv) youth unemployment. Country-level data for Peru were obtained from United Nations published sources. Community-level data were obtained from a household survey conducted in 2005-2006 in Belén, a community of extreme poverty in the Amazon region.
Between November 2005 and March 2006, 898 sexually active women attending two reproductive health clinics in Mysore, India were recruited into a cohort study investigating the relationship between vaginal flora and HSV-2 infection. Participants were interviewed and screened for reproductive tract infections. Laboratory tests included serology for HSV-2; cultures for TV, Candida sp., and Neisseria gonorrhoeae; Gram stains; and two POC tests: vaginal pH; and Whiff test.
Cross-sectional study in Walukuba Division bordering Lake Victoria, Jinja District. We assessed a random sample of 463 individuals aged 10-20 years for Schistosoma mansoni infection, water contact behaviour and treatment status with praziquantel as of the last mass treatment. Socioeconomic conditions of the participants' households were assessed by calculating a wealth index (based on type of housing and ownership of assets). Households were classified in four classes; multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to identify independent predictors of being infected with schistosomiasis. Intensities of infection with S. mansoni were compared across the classes of wealth index.
We used a geographic information system to integrate data on child mortality and associated risk factors. We then applied spatial statistics to quantify the spatial component of child mortality trends, and employed multivariate analysis to break mortality down into a spatial and a local component.
The new equipment for CPR consists a sucking device to attach on the abdominal wall, and with a handle, the abdominal wall can be lifted and compressed rhythmically to produce the effect of CPR.
Ninety-five healthy male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats weighing 225-250 g were randomly divided into four groups: sham operation group (I, n=8); normal saline group (II, n=29); rAAV-EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) group (III, n=29) and rAAV-rHO-1 group (IV, n=29). In II, III and IV groups, 600 mul of normal saline, rAAV-EGFP or rAAV-rHO-1 was injected intra-myocardial at four sites on the anterior and posterior walls of left ventricle. After 3 months, 3 animals in each group were sacrificed. EGFP-expression in heart sections was observed under fluorescence microscope. The expression of HO-1 in the injected myocardium was detected by immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The remaining animals in the four groups were anesthetized, tracheostomized and mechanically ventilated. I/R of myocardium was producing by blocking the left anterior descending branch of coronary artery (LAD) for 30 minutes followed by 120 minutes reperfusion. After the successful reproduction of the model, the animals were killed and their hearts were harvested for determination of myocardial infarct size, apoptotic index (AI), and pathology changes in myocardial tissue.
Three SNPs of PECAM-1 gene Leu125Val, Asn563Ser and Gly670Arg were analyzed in 180 patients with AMI and 200 age and sex matched controls, using a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) strategy, and the serum level of PECAM-1 was determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Frequency of haplotypes and linkage disequilibrium of PECAM-1 gene in different groups were analyzed by SHEsis programs.
Twenty-six patients with sudden cardiac arrest received CPR, and those patients who had blood circulation maintained for over 24 hours were included. The expression of CK-MB and cTnI activation in peripheral blood were determined at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20 hours after CPR in all patients. Electrocardiogram was checked every 2 hours in all patients. If CK-MB, cTnI and ST segment of electrocardiogram was higher than usual, or myocardial infarct with suspicious elevation of ST (STEMI), coronary arteriography and interventional therapy were carried out immediately. Patients were divided into three groups. The patients who were not found to have coronary artery block were classified as group A (15 cases), those who were found to have coronary artery block were group B (6 cases), and the remaining patients in whom ST segment of electrocardiogram did not elevate, and coronary arteriography and interventional therapy were not consider were classified as group C (5 cases). Control group consisted of 15 healthy people (group D). The change in CK-MB and cTnI in peripheral blood and the elevation of electrocardiogram ST segment were analyzed.
Rats were randomly divided into three groups: the sham-operated group, the resuscitation control group, and the resuscitation treatment group. Cardiac arrest was produced by clamping the endotracheal intubation, and CPR was executed 1 minute later. In the resuscitation treatment group, SB-3CT (25 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally after the restoration of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). The rats were executed immediately, and 0, 3, 9, 24 and 48 hours after the treatment. BBB was examined, and the expression of MMP-9 protein and MMP-9 mRNA in brain tissue were detected, and the ultrastructure of brain tissue was studied with electron microscopy.
The bone marrow of the extremities of the rats was flushed, and bone marrow MSCs were obtained by method of density gradient centrifugation. They were cultured. The second passage of cultured MSCs were labelled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). The cardiac myocytes were obtained from the apex of rat heart with trypsin digestion method, and they were cocultured with labeled MSCs. The developmental changes of bone marrow MSCs were observed under light microscope with immunohistochemical staining for BrdU and alpha-sarcomeric actin on the 3rd day, and electron microscopic examination on the 5th day.
One hundred and eighty-three patients in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Baotou Medical College were prospectively studied. The patients were divided into two groups according to the different ways of out-hospital care, one group consisted of patients who received first-aid care after calling "120" (94 cases), another was self-aid group consisting of patients sent to hospital by relatives (89 cases). The proportion of persons with higher than high school education and better knowledge for emergency care of patients with heart disease in first-aid group was higher than self-aid group (50.0% vs. 29.2%, 83.0% vs. 60.7%, both P&lt;0.05). When the patients were brought to the emergency room, they were all treated according to our standard procedure and then registered. All patients were followed up at the end of first and third month after illness.
Human renal proximal tubular cell line HK-2 cell was used as target cell. They were divided into three groups: control group, asphyxia group and Ucf-101 (Omi/HtrA2 special inhibitor) treated group. The challenge concentration of serum obtained from neonates 24 hours after asphyxia was 20%, and the treatment concentration of Ucf-101 was 10 mumol/L. The Omi/HtrA2 translocation in renal tubular cells was observed with confocal microscopy, and the rate of apoptosis was detected with flow cytometer.
Computer retrieval was conducted to search for randomly controlled trials (1966-2009) to compare the result of IIT and CIT. The quality of included studies was critically evaluated and data were analyzed by using the Cochrane Collaboration's RevMan 5.0 software.
A total of 96 patients with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and nonketotic hyperglycemia (NKH) were treated on a low-dose insulin protocol using intravenous infusion of insulin with the established rate of 0.1 Uxkg(-1)xh(-1), with the patients on intravenous fluids and receiving nutrition by mouth and vein. The levels of serum leptin, 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (8-iso-PGF(2 alpha)), the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and the contents of malondialdehyde (MDA) in 96 patients with hyperglycemia crisis on admission and after insulin therapy with resolution of hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis (72 hours) were measured. Another 35 healthy individuals served as normal control.
One hundred and one critically ill patients with elevated blood lactic acid level were included in this study and divided into death group (n=50) and survival group (n=51). Differences in their lactic acid indexes (including: lactic acid level, duration of lacticemia, lactic clearance), acute physiology and chronic health evaluation II (APACHEII) score, and other clinical indicators which reflected organ/system status were compared, and prognostic significant lacticemia indexes were formulated by multi-variable logistic analysis. Subsequently, patients were grouped by significant lactic indexes separately and compared with incidence of shock/multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS), APACHE II score and mortality.
A prospective randomized controlled trial was conducted. The sedation target was sedation-agitation scale (SAS) 3-4. A total of 83 patients in the intensive care unit were assigned to receive the sedation based on BIS monitor (42 cases) or the sedation based on subjective scale SAS (41 cases). The parameters of respiration, circulation, and the depth of sedation (BIS, SAS, Ramsay) were recorded. The difference between the two groups was compared. The correlation index and significance were calculated.
Forty rats were randomly divided into two groups: dexamethasone treatment and no treatment, and severe brain injury was produced by gas percussion in both groups. At 0, 6, 24, 72 and 120 hours after injury, 5 rats of each group were executed and the histopathological changes in brain tissue in rats were observed by hematoxylin-eosin (HE) stain. The expression of NF-KappaB in brain tissue of rats was detected by immunohistochemical method.
Placentas of 24 women with pre-eclampsia (3 with mild pre-eclampsia and 21 with severe pre-eclampsia) and 50 healthy pregnant women at full term (control) were collected during selected cesarean delivery between August 2007 and March 2008. The statuses of H19 imprinting with placental tissues from normal pregnancy and patients with pre-eclampsia were identified upon polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). The systolic and diastolic pressure were analyzed in H19 heterozygotic women.
Forty-two severe pre-eclamptic patients and 4 eclamptic patients in Peking University First Hospital from Dec. 2005 to Dec. 2007 were enrolled in the study group, with the mean gestational week of 35 +/- 4, the mean age of 29.3 +/- 5.7 and the mean BMI (30.1 +/- 4.1) kg/m(2). This group included 25 cases of early onset pre-eclampsia, 21 cases of late onset pre-eclampsia, 8 cases of fetal growth restriction and 5 cases of HELLP syndrome. The control group included 29 cases of normal pregnant women during the same period, with the mean gestational week of 33 +/- 4, the mean age of 30.7 +/- 3.4 and the mean BMI (27.2 +/- 2.2) kg/m(2). Peripheral serum endoglin was determined by ELISA in these two groups.
From June 2007 to January 2008, 73 women with pre-eclampsia who delivered in the Department of Obstetrics, Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University Medical College, were recruited, including 35 women with mild pre-eclampsia (MPE group) and 38 women with severe pre-eclampsia (SPE group). And 45 healthy pregnant women were taken as control group. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to measure the plasma concentrations of oxLDL in these women. Semiquantitative RT-PCR and Western blot were used to investigate the expression of LOX-1 mRNA and protein in placenta. The expression of caspase-3 mRNA in placenta was determined using Semiquantitative RT-PCR.
Totally, 5000 singleton pregnancies presented at the Maternal-Fetal Medical Center of the Affiliated Drum Tower Hospital of Nanjing University Medical School from September 2006 to July 2007, for prenatal screening were included in this study, with the median maternal age of 28 (range, 18 approximately 48) and the median gestation of 27 (range, 18 approximately 40) weeks. Ultrasound screenings were performed on each fetal heart according to "Guidelines for performing fetal cardiac scan" via the four-chamber and outflow tracts &amp; three-vessel views and fetal echocardiographies were further conducted for suspected cases. Once congenital heart disease was confirmed, amniocentesis or cordocentesis was suggested for fetal karyotyping for ongoing pregnancies and autopsy was performed when the pregnancy was terminated after formal consent. Born babies were followed up at 2 approximately 6 months of age using echocardiography.
Between October 1998 and December 2006, 1271 newborns from mothers treated by in vitro fertilization techniques [including in vitro fertilization (IVF), intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and thaw embryo transfer (Thaw-ET)] matched with 269 newborns from mothers treated by artificial insemination were enrolled in Reproductive Medicine Center in First Hospital Affiliated to Zhengzhou University. Their medical information was analyzed retrospectively to compared neonatal characteristics, the incidence of birth defect and anomalous organs involved between in vitro fertilization group and artificial insemination group.
From Jan 2000 to Apr 2008, the medical documents of 6 cases with cervical ulcer in Behcet's disease were reviewed retrospectively, who were treated in No.2 hospital affiliated to Wenzhou Medical School
All cases with borderline ovarian tumors treated in the West China Second University Hospital from January 2001 to June 2007 were analyzed retrospectively for clinicopathologic features, treatment parameters and outcome of treatment. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to assess independent prognostic factors using the logistic regression model.
The levels of CA(125), CA(19-9) and CP2 before and after initial surgery, during primary chemotherapy and follow-up were serially measured and analyzed retrospectively in 28 cases of recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinoma patients and 20 cases of primary chemo-resistant ovarian carcinoma patients from Jan 1999 to July 2007. According to whether the change of serum tumor markers profile, all the patients were divided into two groups: marker changed-group and marker un-changed group. The average follow up period was 25 months.
The differentially expressed genes and its copy number variation between HO-8910PM cell line and normal ovarian tissues was detected by human genome U133A 2.0 gene chip and human mapping 10K array 2.0 gene chip, and the data was analyzed by bioinformatics. Some of metastasis-associated genes were validated the results of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and cDNA chips by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and real-time quantitative PCR.
RT-PCR was used to detect six receptors expression including UNC5A, UNC5B, UNC5C, UNC5D, DCC and neogenin in extra villous trophoblast cell line TEV-1. The TEV-1 cells were cultured and devided into seven groups according to the concentration of netrin-1 adding into the medium, which include 10 microg/L, 50 microg/L, 100 microg/L, 500 microg/L, 1000 microg/L, 5000 microg/L and the control (the concentration of netrin-1 was 0 microg/L)groups. The proliferation and invasion of TEV-1 induced by netrin-1 were determined by CCK-8 assay and transwell invasion assay respectively.
A total of rabbit oocytes were collected and thawed after vitrification cryopreservation. Among all oocytes were cultured for 1 hour followed by ICSI. 156 Survived oocytes were divided into 5 groups randomly. I0634 single activation: 30 oocytes were added with calcium ionomycin (I0634) at 5 micromol/L for 5 minutes; SrCl(2) single activation: 26 oocytes were added with strontium chloride at 10 mmol/L for 10 minutes; I0634 double activation: 33 oocytes were activated by I0634 twice; SrCl(2) double activation: 28 oocytes were activated by strontium chloride twice.
39 oocytes were not added with any activators. The rate of fertilization, cleavage and blastocysts formation were observed and compared between various groups.
Female Fischer344 rats of 6 - 8 weeks were allocated to four groups (n = 8 each): PDT group (inoculated intraperitoneal with PDT tumor cell lysates), freeze/thaw group (inoculated intraperitonealy with freeze-thaw tumor cell lysates), normal saline group (inoculated intraperitoneal with normal saline) and control group. Rat epithelial ovarian cancer NuTu19 cells were injected into all rats by intraperitoneal at day 7, while injected with normal saline in control group. The number of tumor specific interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secreting splenocytes was quantified by enzyme linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay, the cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity of splenocytes was measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) analysis and tumor growth and the survival time of rats were also observed.
Thirty-five patients with VINIII admitted in Cancer Hospital of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences between 1993 and 2008 were analyzed retrospectively.
According to the 2004 modified terminology of ISSVD, a retrospective review of the histological slides of 19 cases, who diagnosed as VINII, VINII-III, VINIII, Bowen disease and Bowenoid papulosis treated in Peking Union Medical College Hospital from 1999 to 2006, were performed to reclassify by pathologist and the clinicopathologic data were also analyzed.
The clinical and pathological data about age, liquid-based cytology, human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA test, colposcopy, histology types and treatment in 35 patients with VAIN were reviewed to investigate the diagnosis and therapy of VAIN and correlation to CIN.
The prospective study was designed as a randomized and single blind multi-center research matched with positive agent as controls from Apr 2007 to Aug 2007. 440 women underwent caesarian section (CS) indicated by obstetric factors were enrolled from 15 teaching hospitals in China and assigned into three groups: group of motherwort: 147 cases were administered by motherwort 40 mg uterine injection during CS and 20 mg intramuscular injection per 12 hours 3 times after CS; group of motherwort+oxytocin: 144 cases were administered by motherwort 40 mg and oxytocin 10 U uterine injection during CS and motherwort 20 mg intramuscular injection per 12 hours 3 times after CS and group of oxytocin: 149 cases were administered by oxytocin 10 U uterine injection and oxytocin 10 U+5% glucose 500 ml intravenously injection during operation and oxytocin 10 U intramuscular injection per 12 hours 3 times after CS. The following clinical parameter were collected and analyzed: (1) The amount of blood loss during operation, at 2, 6, 12, 24, 48 hours after operation. (2) The total amount of blood loss in 24 hours after CS and the incidence of postpartum hemorrhage. (3) The change of level of hemoglobin (Hb) and counting of red blood cell (RBC) from prepartum to postpartum. (4) Adverse reaction.
80 cases of normal and pre-eclampsia pregnant women from July 2007 to May 2008 in Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital were studied. The control group of 36 cases, pre-eclampsia were divided into three groups: a total of 44 cases, mild pre-eclampsia group (9 cases), severe pre-eclampsia group (26 cases) and chronic hypertension with pre-eclampsia group (9 cases). The placental vascular index (VI), flow index (FI), blood vessels and blood flow index (VFI) by three-dimensional Doppler histogram and the umbilical blood flow systolic to diastolic (S/D) by color Doppler flow imaging were calculated and the gestational age after delivery, birth weight, placental weight after birth were recorded respectively.
Totally, 270 pregnant women including 156 with an abnormal oral glucose tolerance test (study group) and 114 healthy controls were selected among those delivered at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking University First Hospital from Jan. 2005 to Dec. 2006. The SNP of CAPN10 gene at positions 43, 19, and 63 were analyzed by primer-introduced restriction analysis-polymerase chain reaction (PIRA-PCR).
The concentration of TBA in the maternal peripheral blood and neonatal cord blood were measured by enzyme in 30 women with ICP as patients group matched with 30 normogravidas as control group. The concentration of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) in cord blood was detected by monoclonal enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Fetal left ventricle Tei index was evaluated by color Doppler ultrasonoscope.
Human luteinized granulose cells were derived from 10 patients treated by in vitro fertilization-embryo transplantation (IVF-ET) in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University from June to December 2006. Granulose cells were divided into group A, B, C, D, E depending on different concentration of AMH, testosterone group and blank group. 1x10(-7) mol/L testosterone and 1, 5, 10, 20, 50 microg/L AMH were added into the culture medium of group A, B, C, D and E. 1x10(-7) mol/L testosterone was added into the culture medium of testosterone group while no other ingredient was added into the medium of blank group. Estrogen levels in supernates were measured at 24, 48, 72 hours after cell incubation. RT-PCR was performed to detect the P450 aromatase mRNA expression in group B, C, D, E and testosterone group at 72 hours after cell incubation.
From Jan. 1994 to Jun. 2007, 106 cases with early stage high-risk endometrial cancer were treated in Peking University First Hospital and were divided into two groups based with postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT group, 66 cases) and without adjuvant chemotherapy (control group, 40 cases). The 5-year survival rates was calculated by Kaplan-Meier method. Prognosis factors were further determined by univariate analysis and Cox proportional hazards models.
From January 2000 to February 2008, 1699 consecutive patients with CIN undergoing conization was reviewed retrospectively in order to analyze the relationship between the positive margin of conization with clinical prognostic factors, such as patients age, disease grade, size of lesion, the procedure of excision and menopause. chi2 tests was used to compare the different frequencies of factors in groups of positive and negative margin conization, then seven factors with positive margin were processed into unconditional logistic regression analysis.
A total of 156 Kunming mice were divided into 4 groups randomly, including group A, B, C (48 mice in every experimental group) and control group (12 mice in control group). UU 3 at concentration of 1x10(7) copy/g (group A), 1x10(6) copy/g (group B), 1x10(5) copy/g (group C) were inoculated into 48 mice in every experimental group intravaginally, in the mean time, culture medium of UU was given into 12 mice in control group. They were necropsied at 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, 35 days of postinoculation randomly, which included 8 mice of every experimental group and 2 mice of control group every time, and to detect UU3 expression from cervical secretions by FQ-PCR and observing the pathogenicity rate in tissues of cervix, endometrium, fallopian tube by light microscope and calculate the morbidity rate.
The mRNA levels of estrogen receptor (ER) was detected by quantitative RT-PCR, and the activity of transcriptional factors was also analysed by 345-channel protein/DNA array in RL-952 (the expression status of ERalpha and ERbeta both positive), HEC-1A [ERalpha (+/-), while ERbeta negative] and HEC-1B (ERalpha and ERbeta both negative). The transcription factors of NFkappaBp65 and p38MAPK with different activity were tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to confirm the results of protein/DNA array.
AdhTERT-Can vector was constructed and identified by means of enzyme cutting, electrophoresis and sequencing. Then, transfected into HO8910PM cells by means of lipofectamine and confirmed by green fluorescence protein (GFP) expression under laser confocus microscope. The mRNA expression of canstatin gene was tested by RT-PCR. Human ovarian cancer xenografted tumor models in nude mice were established and randomly divided into AdhTERT-Can group received viral supernatant solution of AdhTERT-Can by tail vein injection, Ad-Can groups received viral supernatant solution of Ad-Can by tail vein injection, and control groups received phosphate buffer solution (PBS). The volume of tumors were measured and compared in each group to evaluated the anti-tumor efficacy.
Amniotic fluids were obtained from 15 pregnant women undergone amniocenteses for medical indications between 16 - 24 gestation weeks by transabdominal amniocenteses from September 2007 to June 2008. Amniotic fluids (10 - 20 ml) samples were collected and each was cultured under different conditions or groups. (1) Low-glucose DMEM (LD) medium supplemented with 10% of fetal bovine serum (group of 10%FBS); (2) LD medium with 20% of FBS (group of 20%FBS); (3) LD medium with 15% of FBS and 4 ng/ml of basic fibroblast growth factor (group of bFGF); (4) LD medium with 10% of FBS as well as the culture plate coated with gelatin (group of gelatin). The effects of different conditions were evaluated by comparing the number of primary colonies, the cell morphology and the ability of expansion. The isolated stem cells were identified by flow cytometry, RT-PCR and differentiation ability to adipocyte.
Enzyme immunoassay was used to measure the adiponectin and visfatin levels in maternal and umbilical serum from 14 women with fetal growth restriction (FGR group), 14 women with macrosomia (macrosomia group) and 14 normal pregnant women (control group). The correlations of cord serum adiponectin and visfatin with maternal serum adiponectin and visfatin were analyzed.
From Jan. 2004 to Jan. 2005, 30 preeclampsia patients (PE group) were chosen in the Third Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical College matched with 10 normal third trimester women as control (control group). The placental DDAH-2 mRNA expression was detected by fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (FQ-PCR) and the plasma concentration of ADMA was determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
CGH + FISH and MLPA + FISH were used for genetic analysis of 29 CVS from spontaneous abortion and 6 normal CVS from selective abortion, in the mean time, those results were compared with conventional cytogenetic karyotyping.
Four URSA patients (abortion group) and 4 normal early pregnant women (control group) were enrolled in this study. Tr cells and DC in the peripheral blood and deciduas were isolated using Ficoll density gradient centrifugation and magnetic cell sorting (MACS). DC were cultured alone (DC alone) or in combination with Tr cells (DC + Tr) for 6 days, during which the release of interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-10 in the medium was subsequently measured by enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assay (ELISA).
The prospective study enrolled 124 women given by GnRH-a+ recombine follicle stimulating hormone (rFSH) + human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) long term stimulation protocol undergone their first cycle of IVF-ET treatment. The following predictive factors were collected and analyzed, such as age, basal level of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), the ratio of FSH/ luteinizing hormone (LH), the concentration of INHB after down-regulation, total number of antral follicle count (AFC) and mean ovarian volume. Ovarian response was evaluated by the number of oocytes obtained. A multiple regression analysis and logistic regression model were used for all possible prognostic variables to evaluate the value of different hormones in predicting ovarian response and pregnancy after IVF-ET. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to evaluate the level of INHB in predicting the number of oocytes obtained. The sensitivity and specificity were calculated at the discriminating cut-off point.
Medical documents of 6 cases with vulvovaginal anomalies treated in Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in Peking Union Medical College Hospital in the past 10 years were reviewed retrospectively. According to embryological and anatomical characteristics, the classification system were established.
Ascites-derived exosomes were isolated by ultracentrifugation on sucrose and D2O gradients from 41 ovarian epithelial carcinoma patients, and identified by transmission electron microscope and western blot analyses. Ascites-derived exosomes were evaluated for effect on prognosis of ovarian epithelial carcinoma.
The clinical data of 17 recurrent and failure of primary treatment in MOGCT cases treated in Pecking Union Medical College Hospital from January 1983 to May 2008 were analyzed retrospectively to evaluate failure of primary treatment and second treatment.
The clinical, pathologic and follow-up data of 20 cases with vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia treated primarily in Cancer Hospital of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences from Jan. 1999 to Dec. 2007, were reviewed and analyzed retrospectively.
The HUVEC culture were divided into groups as followed: added M199 culture medium as normal control groups, added CoCl2 to mimic hypoxia in vitro as hypoxia group and added different concentrations of LXA(4) (1, 10, 100 nmol/L) were added to the induced hypoxial HUVEC as agents intervention group. Morphological changes of HUVEC were observed by using inverted phase contrast microscope. The influence of LXA(4) on cell survival was investigated by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assaying method after the treatment with different concentrations of LXA(4) and 100 nmol/L lipoxinA(4) according to different time (4, 8, 12 and 24 hours). The expression of von-willebrand factor (vWF) was detected by immunocytochemistry method. The changes of cytosolic Ca(2+) were measured by laser scanning confocal microscope.
To analyze retrospectively the cases with upper urinary tract calculi treated by open stone surgery from January 1995 to December 2004.
To analyze the chemical composition of 290 urinary stones by infrared (IR) spectroscopy and study the ratio changes of uric acid calculus. Uric acid calculus patients and healthy people were studied. Personal characteristics, dietary habits were collected. Conditional logistic regression was used for data analysis and studied the dietary risk factors of uric acid calculus. Patients with uric acid calculus, calcium oxalate and those without urinary calculus were undergone metabolic evaluation analysis. The results of uric acid calculus patients compared to another two groups to analysis the relations between the formation of uric acid calculus and metabolism factors.
From August 2004 to August 2008, 28 preschool children with urinary tract calculi were treated by endoscopy, 11 cases received ureterolithotripsy (URL) and 17 cases received minimally invasive percutaneous nephrolithotomy (MPCNL).
From March 2006 to September 2008, 36 patients with lower pole renal calculi were treated by inversion-table, 13 cases with stone diameter from 4 mm to 20 mm received extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) combined with inversion-table treatment and other 23 cases with stone diameter from 2 mm to 4mm received inversion-table treatment alone.
One hundred and thirty-six cases with ureteral calculi after failed ESWL and 189 cases with ureteral calculi were treated with ureteroscopic lithotripsy (URSL). Clinical data of two groups were analyzed retrospectively.
In this study 128 patients with renal calculus or calculus of superior ureter from January 2007 to February 2008 were collected. Hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit (Hct), plasma osmotic pressure (POP), fluid-electrolyte, serum creatinine (Cre), renin, angiotensin II and aldosterone were determined before and after operation. Heart rate (HR), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and oxygen saturation (SPO(2)) were recorded dynamically every 30 min.
A prospective randomized single-center clinical trail to compare with endarterectomy and stenting in patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis of at least 50% and asymptomatic stenosis of at least 70%. From May 2004 to December 2006, there were 40 patients who agreed with the treatment were randomly assigned to undergo either CEA or CAS. The primary end point was any stroke or death within 30 d after treatment and the secondary end point was any stroke, myocardial infarction and any complications of the treatment, or death or ipsilateral stroke and carotid restenosis between 1 month and 18 months, and the cost-effectiveness of both groups were analyzed retrospectively as well.
One hundred and fifty patients with chronic venous insufficiency (150 limbs) were randomly assigned to Group A (75 limbs) and Group B (75 limbs). Patients in Group A were treated with long saphenous veins radiofrequency ablation procedures in combination with TriVex. Patients in Group B were treated with long saphenous veins traditional stripping operation in combination with TriVex. The postoperative pain, average hospital stay and short-term results in hospital were compared between the two groups. Self-assessment of the operation 4 weeks after, changes of CEAP classification, venous clinical severity score (VCSS) and chronic venous insufficiency questionnaire (CIVIQ) score were compared between the two groups.
From January 2000 to June 2008, 165 patients with Crohn disease receiving perioperative nutritional support were included in this retrospective analysis. The patients were divided into three groups according to the ways of nutritional support: total enteral nutrition group, total parenteral nutrition group and combined nutrition group; there were 55 patients in each group. Each group had the same treatment except for nutritional support. The efficacy of different approaches of nutritional support was analyzed and compared among the groups.
From February 1992 to June 2006, there were 760 patients who underwent cholecystolithiasis treated with the minimal invasive operation with gallbladder preserved via choledochoscopy, among which there were 428 males and 332 females, aged from 18 to 81 years old. All cases were diagnosed by ultrasonography and their gallbladder functions were proved normal by the examination of oral cholecystography or ECT before operation. In the operation gallstones were removed from gallbladder completely.
The mRNA and protein levels expressions of B7-H1 and IL-10 in 35 cases of pancreatic cancer and corresponding paracarcinoma tissues and 5 cases of normal pancreas tissues were detected by RT-PCR, Western blot and immunohistochemistry respectively.
From April 2006 to August 2006, 20 consecutive patients after gastrointestinal operations were recruited and randomized to instillation group and pump group. In instillation group, the insulin was directly added into PN and transfused. In pump group, the insulin was added into syringes and transfused by infusion pump. Activation and concentration of insulin, and blood glucose in patients were measured at beginning infusion, infused 1000 ml, infused 2000 ml, and remained 100 ml daily for the first 3 days after operation.
Forty two patients were treated with pedicle screw fixation with posterolateral fusion because of lumbar spondylolisthesis, with the average age of 56.0 years. There were 11 males and 31 females; 20 degenerative spondylolisthesis cases, and 22 isthmic spondylolisthesis cases; 1 L(3,4) case, 26 L(4,5) cases and 25 L(5)S(1) cases; 23 grade I patients and 19 grade II ones. All patients were taken the X-ray examination before operation and one week after operation. Measurements of slip ratio, percentage disc height, slip angle, lumbar lordosis angle and sacral slope angle were based on pre-operation X-rays. Measurements of the post-operation slip ratio were based on post-operation X-rays. Multivariate regression analysis was used to analysis the correlation between reduction ratio and pre-operation slip ratio, slip angle, percentage of disc height, lumbar lordosis angle and sacral slope angle.
Two-dimensional sagittal MRI of the spine was performed in 10 normal adolescent, 10 patients with mild idiopathic thoracic scoliosis (Cobb angle 15 degrees - 39 degrees ) and 10 patients with moderate thoracic scoliosis (Cobb angle 40 degrees - 75 degrees ), all of them were female and between 13 - 14 years old. Sagittal imaging was reconstructed on image working station (Easy Vision, Philips Medical Systems, Best, Netherlands). Anterior height, posterior height and width of vertebral body as well as length between spinous process were measured on each thoracic spine.
From July 2006 to July 2007, 35 patients (40 hips) accepted total hip replacement using trabecular metal monoblock acetabular cup system (TM). The cup was made of a ellipse shaped press fit Tantalum shell and high cross-linked PE liner (Longevity) with 28 mm inner diameter. The patients demography was: 16 male (20 hips), 19 female (20 hips), 5 bilateral hip replacements, age from 41 - 71 (mean 53), including 18 avascular necrosis hips, 16 osteoarthritis hips (including those secondary to a dysplasia hip), 4 avascular necrosis hips after femoral neck fracture, 2 Ankylosis Spondylitis. All the 40 total hip replacements used posterior approach, using hemispherical acetabular reamer and 2 mm press fit of final metal shell without screw fixation. The consecutive X film was taken at the end time of surgery and 2, 6, 12, 24 weeks, and 12 months. The clinical results was evaluate according to Harris scoring system, and the standard pelvis AP X film was measured at the interface between metal shell and the acetabular bone surface, witch was divided into five regions (A, B, C, D, E).
Twelve timed-pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into two groups, namely control group and CDH group on day 9.5 of gestation. Each rat in the CDH group was given 125 mg of Nitrofen (dissolved in seed fat) by gavage. Each rat in the control group was given the same dose of single oil. On day 16 of gestation, the two groups mentioned above were divided into three subgroups, and fetuses were delivered by cesarean section respectively on day 16, 18 and 21 of gestation. After the fetuses were checked for diaphragmatic hernia, lung tissue weight (LW) and body weight (BW) of each fetus on gestational day 21 were recorded. Lung histologic evaluations were made with microscope and TGF-beta1 immunohistochemistry staining were performed with image analyzing.
The full thickness skin defects were made on 10 Bama miniature pigs and the BDE composed of collagen-chitosan porous scaffold and silicone membrane was transplanted on wound. Angiogenesis in dermal equivalent, wound healing, and healing and survive of skin grafts on dermal equivalent were observed in 1, 2, and 3 weeks after the BDE transplantation. At the same time, CD34 positive signals (neo-forming micro-vessels) were detected by immunohistochemical staining.
In a comprehensive survey, the effect of 11 neutralizing antibodies and inhibitors in blocking entry of 30 envelope pseudotyped virus strains in two types of target cells, PBMC and TZM-bl, was evaluated.
Env-pseudotyped HIV infection of PBMC and TZM-bl cells.
CD8 T cells from HIV-positive patients on and off antiretroviral therapy were assayed respectively for STAT activation, cytokine receptor, and transcription factor expression by flow cytometry and real-time PCR.
A questionnaire was distributed to first-, second-, and third-year medical students attending the University of Calgary medical school.
Seventeen psychiatric residents and counselors completing two parallel case discussion groups at a U.K. psychotherapy service were given in-depth interviews about their experiences of this training. Interview transcripts were analyzed using qualitative methodology.
Data were collected from the Dartmouth Medical Encounter Documentation System (DMEDS) for all student encounters in required third-year psychiatry clerkships during academic years 2004-2007, in which students had intensive involvement in patient care.
The authors conducted a survey of fourth-year medical students at Aga Khan University in Karachi, Pakistan.
The authors examine the literature detailing the shortage of psychiatrist-researchers and the limitations of research training during residency. The authors then describe the Psychiatrists Acquiring Research Training (PART) program at Beth Israel Medical Center that attempts to address this problem. Data collected on resident scholarly activity, including publications and presentations, is presented.
A 1-day workshop was convened in October, 2004. The workshop featured panel presentations on key topics followed by interactive discussion. This article summarizes the workshop and subsequent discussions, which centered on topics including weighting the statistics/data analysis elements of an application in the assessment of the application's overall merit; the level of statistical sophistication appropriate to different stages of research and for different funding mechanisms; some key considerations in the design and analysis portions of applications; appropriate statistical methods for addressing essential questions posed by an application; and the role of the statistician in the application's development, study conduct, and interpretation and dissemination of results.
The author describes the procedural requirements for international research from the time of priority score receipt to the implementation of the grant.
The authors reviewed current curricula vitae from 92 graduates of an institutional NRSA and from the faculty mentors of that program to assess publications through 2005. Publications were weighted based on peer versus non-peer-reviewed and authorship position. Trainee and mentor factors were assessed for their impact on publication rates and on becoming principal investigators of larger scale federal grants such as a National Institutes of Health (NIH) R01.
The authors explored the interactions of 20 faculty members (10 scientists and 10 clinical teachers) taking part in a 1-year structured faculty development program, based on a partnership model, designed to encourage collaborative interaction between scientists and clinical teachers. Data were collected before, during, and after the program using participant observations, surveys, participant diaries, and focus groups. Qualitative data were analyzed iteratively using the method of meaning condensation, and further informed with descriptive statistics generated from the pre- and postsurveys.
Modifications to the original plan are described and quantifiable results in the areas of scholarship and research are summarized.
The authors reviewed successful NIH conference grant proposal abstracts. They also reflect on their own experience in writing an NIH conference grant proposal and implementing a successful annual conference on research methods in the area of psychological trauma.
The expression of beta-galactoside alpha2,6-sialyltransferase (ST6Gal-I) in the colon cancer cell line HCT116 was reduced by siRNA. The adhesion and Boyden chamber assay were used to detect the variation in cell motility. alpha2,6-Sialylation proteins were detected with lectin affinity assay. The mRNA expression, protein expression and downstream signaling modulation with siRNA were detected using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, flow cytometry analysis, and Western blot.
In Sprague Dawley rats with permanent ligation of the left coronary artery (post-MI), AVE8134 was compared to the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone and in a second study to the ACE inhibitor ramipril. In DOCA-salt sensitive rats, efficacy of AVE8134 on cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis was investigated. Finally, AVE8134 was administered to old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) at a non-blood pressure lowering dose with survival as endpoint. In cellular models, we studied AVE8134 on hypertrophy in rat cardiomyocytes, nitric oxide signaling in human endothelial cells (HUVEC) and LDL-uptake in human MonoMac-6 cells.
A retrovirus infection system was used to establish a CHO-K1 cell line stably transfected with heparanase. Immunocytochemistry was used to assess cell morphology. Flow cytometry was selected to analyze the activation of beta1-integrin, and Western blotting was used to analyze the downstream effects on the cell adhesion pathway. An affinity precipitation assay was used to determine activation of the small GTPases, Rac1, and RhoA.
Quantitative real-time PCR was used to measure mRNA levels after exposure of HepG2 and Caco-2 cells to statins.
The experiment was a two-period, crossover design using 6 Beagle dogs. Meloxicam tablets were administered orally at a dose of 0.31 mg/kg, and meloxicam gel was administered transdermally at a dose of 1.25 mg/kg. Drug concentrations in plasma and synovial fluid were determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). The pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated using the Topfit 2.0 program.
Surface plasmon resonance was used to uncover the binding profiles between the compound and TGF-beta. MTT assay, flow cytometry, Western blot analysis, BCA protein assay and SDS-PAGE gelatin zymography were used to probe the antifibrotic mechanisms of MS80. The in vivo fibrotic efficacy was evaluated in a bleomycin instillation-induced rat model.
Adult male guinea pigs were exposed to CIHH by mimicking a 5000 m high altitude (p(B)=404 mmHg, p(O2)=84 mmHg) in a hypobaric chamber for 6 h/day for 28 days. Langendorff-perfused isolated guinea pig hearts were used to measure variables of left ventricular function during baseline perfusion, ischemia and the reperfusion period. The activity and protein expression of antioxidant enzymes in the left myocardium were evaluated using biochemical methods and Western blotting, respectively. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were assessed using ROS-sensitive fluorescence.
BMP6 was purified via heparin affinity and reverse phase liquid chromatography. The purity, specificity, and bioactivity of BMP6 were determined by SDS-PAGE, Western blot assays, and the induction of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, respectively. Cell proliferation, morphology, and expression levels of alpha-SMA and E-cadherin were assessed by cell viability, microscopy, and Western blot assays, respectively. In addition, cell adhesion abilities were determined by counting the number of attached cells. The expression of fibronectin, collagen IV, matrix metalloproteinases 2 (MMP-2), and tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases 2 (TIMP-2) were analyzed using RT-PCR. MMP-2 activity was analyzed by zymography, whereas the activation of the MAPKs and Smad signaling were analyzed using Western blot assays and a reporter gene assay, respectively.
Primary cultured rat cortical neurons subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) and HEK293/A(1)R cells were treated with the A(1)R-specific agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA). Phospho-EGFR, Akt, and ERK1/2 were observed by Western blot. An interaction between EGFR and A(1)R was detected using immunoprecipitation and immunocytochemistry.
Primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons were pretreated with liquiritigenin (0.02, 0.2, and 2 micromol/L) prior to Abeta(25-35) exposure. Following treatment, viability of the cells was measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide analysis and by a lactate dehydrogenase activity-based cytotoxicity assay. Intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) and levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), as well as apoptotic rates, were determined. Our studies were extended in tests of whether liquiritigenin treatment could inhibit the secretion of Abeta(1-40) as measured using an ELISA method. In order to analyze which genes may be involved, we used a microarray assay to compare gene expression patterns. Finally, the levels of specific proteins related to neurotrophy and neurodenegeration were detected by Western blotting.
Immunoblotting was performed to detect the expression of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). MTT assays were used to determine cell viability. Cell death was estimated with trypan blue exclusion and Hoechst 33342 staining. Immunocytochemical analysis was carried out to identify neurons.
A stable N2a neuroblastoma cell line expressing the Ngb-siRNA plasmid (N2a/Ngb-siRNA) was established by neomycin screening. Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and Western blot analysis were used to detect Ngb gene and protein levels. Hydrogen peroxide was used to induce oxidative stress in N2a cells. Cytotoxicity and cell viability were measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and WST-8 assays. Apoptotic cells were detected by Hoechst staining.
Focal cerebral ischemia was established in rats using a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model. A lentiviral vector-associated RNA interference (RNAi) system was stereotaxically injected into the ipsilateral lateral ventricle to reduce Beclin1 expression. We measured the ipsilateral infarct volume, autophagosome formation, neurogenesis and apoptosis, all of which could be modulated by Beclin1 RNAi.
The level of Cx43 expression in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCM) was detected by a Western blotting assay. The GJIC function was evaluated by scrape loading/dye transfer assay.
Asthmatic E3 rats were prepared by intraperitoneal injection with OVA/aluminum hydroxide and then challenged with intranasal instillation of OVA-PBS two weeks later. The myograph method was used to measure the responses of constriction and dilatation in the trachea, main bronchi and lobar bronchi.
Mice were pretreated with three daily intraperitoneal injections of 150 mg/kg cyclophosphamide, followed by intratracheal inoculation with 4.5x10(6) conidia of Aspergillus fumigatus. The infected mice were then randomly assigned to an amphotericin B (AMB) group, an AMB plus NAC group, or an untreated control (C) group. In each group, the duration of treatment was 24, 48, or 72 h, and activities such as appearance, feeding, and dermal temperature were observed throughout the experiment. Sera and lung tissues were collected and analyzed by quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for total protein, superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels. The wet/dry weight ratio of the lung was also calculated and lung sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin for pathological examination and with methenamine silver stain for fungus detection.
Experimental colitis was induced in C57BL/6J mice by the administration of 5% DSS. Balsalazine was administered intragastrically at doses of 42, 141, and 423 mg/kg. The disease activity index (DAI) score was evaluated and colon tissue was collected for the assessment of histological changes. The amount of malondialdehyde (MDA) in the colon was determined, along with the activity of myeloperoxidase (MPO), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px). Mucosa from the small intestine was collected to determine the levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma. The mucosa was ultrastructurally examined with transmission electron microscopy and intestinal permeability was assayed using Evans blue.
Primary cultures of rat osteoblasts (ROBs) were divided into an intermittent PTH-treated group (Itm) and a control group (Ctr). Imitating the pharmacokinetics of intermittent PTH administration in vivo, the ROBs in the Itm group were exposed to PTH for 6 h in a 24-h incubation cycle, and the ROBs in the Ctr group were exposed to vehicle for the entire incubation cycle. The cells were collected at 6 h and 24 h of the final cycle, and the proteins in the Itm and Ctr groups were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with peptide mass fingerprinting and matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) to detect proteins that were differentially expressed. The proteins with the most significant changes in vitro were validated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in a rat model.
Fluorescence-labeled YCP (fl-YCP) was prepared using the CDAP-activation method. Fluorescence confocal laser microscopy and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) were used to analyze the effect of fl-YCP on macrophages. To characterize the properties of the YCP receptor, carbohydrates and antibodies were used to inhibit the binding of fl-YCP to macrophages. Moreover, we investigated the role of membrane receptors Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), Toll-like receptor 6 (TLR6) and complement receptor 3 (CR3). We also examined the role of the p38 kinase pathway in mediating nitric oxide (NO) production.
The antiviral activity of arbidol in vitro was determined by plaque-forming assay, ranging from 0.5 to 8 microg/mL. To investigate whether arbidol has an antiviral effect in vivo, suckling BALB/c mice infected with HTNV were treated with arbidol at 24 h before infection with a 5, 10 or 20 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), once per day, for 10 days. On day 12 and 28 post infection (pi), histopathological changes and viral antigen were detected. On days 4, 8, 12, and 16 pi, the viral load of target organs and serum TNF-alpha levels of arbidol-treated animals were determined.
A 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]5-[3-carboxymethoxyphenyl]-2-[4-sulfophenyl]2H-tetrazolium inner salt (MTS) assay was used to determine the degree of growth inhibition by the drugs analyzed in this study. Cell cycle distribution and analysis were measured by flow cytometry combined with propidium iodide (PI) staining. The effects on apoptosis were measured by Hoechst 33342 staining and by flow cytometry combined with fluorescein-isothiocyanate-Annexin V/propidium iodide (FITC-Annexin V/PI) staining. Protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis. In vivo antitumor activity was measured using a murine myeloma model in BALB/c mice.
The proteasome inhibitor MG-132 was used to induce autophagy in SHG-44 glioma cells, and the effect of autophagy on the survival of SHG-44 glioma cells was investigated using an autophagy inhibitor 3-MA. Cell viability was measured by MTT assay. Apoptosis and cell cycle were detected by flow cytometry. The expression of autophagy related proteins was determined by Western blot.
SSTR2 expression levels were determined by qRT-PCR in several tumor cell lines. Then, a plasmid pIRES2-EGFP-SSTR2 (pSIG) was constructed and stably transfected into MCF-7 cells (MCF-7/pSIG). After SSTR2 overexpression was identified by qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence staining and a receptor binding assay, the MCF-7/pSIG cells were analyzed by PI staining for apoptosis and cell cycle arrest was tested by flow cytometry for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression. The EGF-stimulated proliferation of MCF-7 cells was assayed by MTT.
A total of 155 postmenopausal healthy female medical staff members from Peking Union Medical College Hospital were enrolled. The HRT group was composed of 71 subjects who had been given a low dose of HRT for over 4 years, while 84 women who had never been given HRT were enrolled in the control group. The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was used to evaluate mental state, and an Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA) was used to detect plasma levels of sex hormones. In addition, all participants were subjected to an MRI, including axial T2 weighted imaging (T2WI), fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), T1 weighted imaging (T1WI, oblique coronal, vertical to the hippocampus, slice thickness 3 mm without gaps), and a 3D image of the whole brain.
Study participants were members of a ground critical care transport team. Investigators performed a review of previous trips, compiling the number of attempts at intubation and success rates. During the intervention period, participants were asked to perform repeated daily intubations of airway mannequins. Intubation success rates and compliance with study protocols were recorded.
A retrospective review was conducted of all treatment-naive Hispanics and NHW with HCV who were treated at the University of New Mexico Hospital or Albuquerque VA Medical Center between October 2001 and January 2007. Genotype 1 patients received 48 weeks of therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin; genotype 2 and 3 patients received 24 weeks of treatment.
We analyzed data from the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NHAMCS) from 1997 to 2006. We studied wait times for acute pancreatitis, appendicitis, cholecystitis, and upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage (UGIH). Diagnosis was based on the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification. Racial/ethnic categories were defined as non-Hispanic White (NHW), non-Hispanic Black, and Hispanic White (HW). Wait time was stratified by racial/ethnic group and by study year. We evaluated the association between race/ethnicity and frequency of delay relative to triage assignment. Multivariate logistic regression was used to estimate the impact of age, sex, payment status, and geography on wait time.
Three hundred twenty-five reflux esophagitis patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to (i) the H. pylori-positive eradication group receiving 1-week triple therapy (n=105); (ii) H. pylori-positive non-eradication controls (n=105); and (iii) H. pylori-negative controls (n=115). All the patients received continuous esomeprazole until sustained symptomatic response, and when possible, shifted to on-demand therapy (ODT) thereafter. Serial gastroscopy was scheduled on enrollment and at the end of the first and second years to assess the prevalence and progression or regression of gastric atrophy (AT) and IM.
In total, 25 consecutive patients with CPH were investigated by MRCP and MRCP-S and compared with 28 consecutive age-matched controls with recurrent upper abdominal pain and normal pancreatic enzymemia.
We conducted a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled, clinical trial with 215 patients followed until death or study closure. The primary outcome measures were dysphagia, quality of life (QL) 6 weeks following treatment, and total cost of treatment. Secondary outcome measures included treatment-associated morbidity, mortality, survival, and cost-effectiveness. An intention-to-treat analysis was carried out.
Five SNPs strongly associated with celiac disease within the KIAA1109/TENR/IL2/IL21 linkage disequilibrium block on chromosome 4q27 and one coding SNP within the IL21 gene were analyzed in a large German IBD cohort. The study population comprised a total of 2,948 Caucasian individuals, including 1,461 IBD patients (ulcerative colitis (UC): n=514, Crohn's disease (CD): n=947) and 1,487 healthy unrelated controls.
Participants enrolled in the Manitoba IBD Cohort Study, a population-based longitudinal cohort study (N=353), were assessed semiannually by survey, clinical interview, and blood sample during a 2-year period. The MIBDI is based on patient self-reports of symptom persistence for the previous 6 months, using a 6-level response format.
The single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) -1237T/C (rs5743836) and 2848A/G (rs352140=p.Pro545Pro) in TLR9, the main CD-associated variants within the genes for NOD2, IL23R, ATG16L1, and variants in the IBD5 locus and in the DLG5 gene were assessed in 956 patients with IBD (606 CD and 350 ulcerative colitis) and in 792 healthy controls. The associations with disease susceptibility and phenotype, and epistatic gene-gene interactions, were analyzed.
A total of 1,965 inactive carriers (mean age: 35.6 years; males: 1,076) were studied. Cirrhosis was diagnosed using a high-resolution real-time ultrasound.
Study groups consisted of 41 CD families composed of 129 patients and 113 HRs, and 14 control families composed of 76 individuals. Mouth swabs and stool specimens were collected for isolation, identification, and quantification of yeasts. Serum samples were collected for detection of ASCAs and anti-C. albicans mannan antibodies (ACMAs).
We conducted a retrospective review of all patients transplanted for ALD surviving for more than 3 months after transplant. PD was defined as either any drinking (AD) to the point of intoxication or drinking above the toxic threshold (&gt;20 g/day in women and &gt;40 g/day in men) on at least two separate occasions. We used Cox's proportional hazards regression to estimate risk ratios and Kaplan-Meier curves with log-rank analysis to compare survival.
MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register were searched (up to June 2008). Trials recruiting adults with IBS in primary, secondary, or tertiary care comparing 5-HT(3) antagonists or 5-HT(4) agonists with placebo were eligible. Dichotomous symptom data were pooled to obtain a relative risk (RR) of remaining symptomatic after therapy, with a 95% confidence interval (CI). The number needed to treat (NNT) was calculated from the reciprocal of the risk difference.
HIV-positive patients were identified from our IPH database over 3 years.
Expression of FASN and its associated targets were studied by immunohistochemistry on 448 CRC tumors in a tissue microarray (TMA) format. Analysis of apoptosis and cell cycle was evaluated in vitro using CRC cell lines by flow cytometry and DNA fragmentation assays. Protein expression was determined by immunohistochemistry and western blotting. In vivo xenograft studies were performed using CRC cell lines and NUDE mice.
In 1994/95, surviving participants of the previously conducted Busselton health population surveys completed a series of clinical and biochemical assessments. Using the Western Australian Health Department data linkage system, admissions for cardiovascular disease (CVD) were determined for 15 years before the survey (from 1980 to 1994). Incident CVD events during the 10-year follow-up period to the end of 2004 were also ascertained. Met S was defined using NCEP ATP III (2005) criteria.
The cohort comprised subjects from three randomly selected population studies from Olmsted County, Minnesota. All of them filled out a validated gastrointestinal (GI) symptom questionnaire, the Symptom Checklist-90-R (SCL-90-R), and the Somatic Symptom Checklist (SSC) comprising 11 somatic complaint items. Logistic regression models were used to evaluate the associations between somatic symptoms/psychosocial factors and IBS, adjusting for age and gender.
A total of 27 gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) patients on PPI were included; 16 had -HH and 11 had a large (&gt; or =3 cm) HH (+HH). During PPI treatment, the effect of baclofen (3 x 20 mg) on acid and non-acid reflux was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study. Reflux was measured during 24 h using combined esophageal impedance and pH-metry.
Medical records of 9,063 colonoscopies performed in 2006 were reviewed for patient demographics, indications, timing, and findings of colonoscopy. Asymptomatic outpatients who had adequate bowel preparation and complete colonoscopy were included. Morning colonoscopies were defined as those that started before 12 noon and afternoon colonoscopies as those that started after 12 noon. ADR is defined as the detection of at least one adenoma per colonoscopy.
We prospectively assessed the outcome and complications of low-dose bolus propofol for endoscopic sedation for diagnostic EGD. Propofol was administered by bolus injection, with a standard protocol of 40 mg for patients &lt;70 years old, 30 mg for patients 70-89 years old, and 20 mg for patients 90 years or older. When required for adequate sedation, additional doses were given, to a maximum of 120 mg. The primary outcome measure was respiratory depression, defined as oxygen desaturation (SpO(2) &lt;90%) that continued for more than 20 s. Secondary measures included successful procedures, full recovery within 60 min of the procedure, and complications.
This was a population-based study of patients hospitalized because of GI complications in 10 general hospitals between 1996 and 2005 in Spain. We report the age- and gender-specific rates, estimate the regression coefficients of the upper and lower GI event trends, and evaluate the severity and associated risk factors. GI hospitalization charts were validated by an independent review of large random samples of unspecific and specific codes distributed among all hospitals and study years.
A retrospective review of all exposures in children younger than six years of age reported to the American Association of Poison Control Centers' data collection system during 2000-04 was conducted. Cases were selected for inclusion if the exposure was an unintentional therapeutic error and if 10-fold dosing error was coded as one of the therapeutic-error scenarios. The specific substance or drug category, patient age and sex, site of exposure, clinical effects, disposition, and outcome were evaluated
A. baumannii isolates (n = 83) originated from two hospital settings in central Ohio were used in this study. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis genotyping and antimicrobial susceptibility testing for clinically relevant antimicrobials were performed. Resistance determinants were characterized by using different phenotypic (accumulation assay for efflux) and genotypic (PCR, DNA sequencing, plasmid analysis and electroporation) approaches.
Prospective.
Emergency physicians.
Twenty-four emergency physicians were invited entering the study. The first step of the study consisted of an initial assessment of their knowledge in the field of difficult tracheal intubation. Then theoretical lectures on the tools and techniques of difficult tracheal intubation were given, followed by standard mannequin-based driven workshops. The second step was conducted six weeks later. Each physician's knowledge was re-evaluated and their ability to manage two difficult airway scenarios simulated on the AirMan simulator (Laerdal was assessed.
Prospective, observational.
Sixty patients, haemodynamically stable, for whom a blood transfusion (BT) was discussed in the postoperative course of general surgery, were included. ScvO(2) (%) and haemoglobin (g/dl) were measured before and after BT. Patients were retrospectively divided into two groups according to ScvO(2) measured before BT (&lt; or &gt;or=70%). Results are expressed as median.
This prospective and non randomized interventional study included 33 sedated, mechanically ventilated patients, with acute circulatory failure requiring cardiac output measurement and fluid challenge. Plasma BNP concentration was measured before and after fluid challenge (250 to 500 ml with infusion rate=999 ml/h). An increase in stroke index (SI) greater than or equal to 15% allowed separation of responders from nonresponders. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated for BNP and compared to that of central venous pressure (CVP) that is routinely considered as a marker of cardiac preload.
Prospective, monocentric.
We studied 13 patients in the postoperative period. CO(ICG) and CO(PAC) were determined at the arrival in the intensive care unit and every four hours. Bland-Altman and Critchley and Critchley's analysis were used to assess the agreement between CO(ICG) and CO(PAC).
Articles in French and English languages were retrieved from PubMed database. The initial request was "anesth* and (genotyp* or polymorphism* or genetic*)".
Original articles, general reviews and one case report. Letters were excluded.
Rare genetic diseases were excluded from the scope of this review. We stressed on frequent genetic polymorphisms that may have a daily impact in anesthesiology.
Fifteen general practitioners recruited patients from March 2005 to October 2007 and collected clinical and sociodemographic data at baseline. Patients were followed up at 2 and 6 weeks to assess lesion resolution.
A cross sectional survey was undertaken of Chinese patients 18 years of age and over attending a general practice in southwestern Sydney (New South Wales) during July 2005. Patients were asked to complete the Kessler Psychological Distress Scale (K10) and Somatic and Psychological Health Report (SPHERE) depression screening questionnaires, along with a demographic questionnaire. All questionnaires were available in English or Chinese.
Between 15 June and 25 June 2008, an online examination was placed on the Australasian College of Skin Cancer Medicine website. Two hundred and forty-five college affiliated doctors were invited by email to complete the examination. Thirty questions were asked pertaining to the management of a hypothetical case study including melanoma, basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma.
An anonymous questionnaire survey mailed to all veterinarians registered with the Veterinary Surgeons Board of Queensland during 2006.
A total of 16,303 swabs and 3782 blood samples were collected and analysed for avian influenza (AI) viruses from 16,420 wild birds in Australia between July 2005 and June 2007. Anseriformes and Charadriiformes were primarily targeted.
Cloacal, oropharyngeal and faecal (environmental) swabs were tested using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the AI type A matrix gene. Positive samples underwent virus culture and subtyping. Serum samples were analysed using a blocking enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for influenza A virus nucleoprotein.
A randomised 2 x 3 block design was used.
Semen was collected from four stallions (6 collections per stallion). The sample was diluted with either a dried skim-milk glucose extender (EZ Mixin Original Formula) or a chemically defined, milk-free diluent (INRA 96), and each was used in combination with 2%, 3% or 4% glycerol in standard commercial freezing medium. Sperm motility was assessed by microscopy in fresh and post-thaw semen.
Prospective study measuring serum cobalamin concentrations in clinically healthy cats and cats with non-alimentary tract illness.
Blood was collected from 50 clinically healthy cats that were owned by staff and associates of Veterinary Specialist Services or were owned animals presented to Creek Road Cat Clinic for routine vaccination. Blood was collected from 47 cats with non-alimentary tract illness presented at either clinic. Serum cobalamin concentration was determined for each group using a chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay.
A controlled clinical study was conducted on dogs with experimentally induced FAD. Sixteen laboratory beagles with mild to moderate clinical signs were divided into two groups. The test group received HCA by topical spray once daily for 7 days, while the control group did not. Pruritic events (time and frequency) were videotaped and then scored. Clinical signs (erythema, papules, excoriation and alopecia) present on four anatomical regions were monitored and their severity directly assessed.
We recruited 43 cats and 50 dogs for the study; 11 cats and 4 dogs were excluded from the statistical analysis because of abnormalities on clinical examination or laboratory testing including anaemia, prolonged prothrombin time (PT) or activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), or insufficient plasma volume for comprehensive laboratory coagulation testing.
Blood samples were collected via direct venipuncture for MAX-ACT, packed cell volume/total solids, manual platelet estimation and PT/APTT measurement. Blood (0.5 mL) was mixed gently in the MAX-ACT tube at 37 degrees C for 30 s, then assessed for clot formation every 5 to 10 s by tipping the tube gently on its side and monitoring for magnet movement. The endpoint was defined as the magnet lodging in the clot. The technique was tested with 10 dogs by collecting two blood samples from the same needle insertion and running a MAX-ACT on each simultaneously.
Immunohistochemistry was performed on a tissue array to determine N-glycolyl GM3 (GM3) and phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3) expression in 176 primary NSCLC resections. Median values of GM3 and pSTAT3 expression were used as cut off. Microvessel density (MVD) was determined by CD34 staining and morphology. CD1a and CD83 were used to determine infiltrating immature and mature dendritic cells, respectively.
Twenty-four survivors of acute hypertriglyceridaemic pancreatitis (cases) and 31 patients with severe hypertriglyceridaemia (controls) were included. Clinical and anthropometrical data, chylomicronaemia, lipoprotein profile, postheparin lipoprotein lipase mass and activity, hepatic lipase activity, apolipoprotein C II and CIII mass, apo E and A5 polymorphisms were assessed.
A randomised controlled study was conducted between April 2003 and April 2005. Car occupants, cyclists, and pedestrians aged between 18 and 70 years and attending the Emergency Department of Umeå University Hospital in Sweden after an injury event in the traffic environment were randomly assigned to an intervention (n = 288) or control group (n = 280). The intervention group received routine care supplemented by nursing via telephone follow-up during half a year, while the control group received routine care only. Data were collected from a mail survey using the non-disease-specific health-related quality of life instrument EQ5D, and a cost-effectiveness analysis was performed including the costs of the intervention and the QALYs gained.
We surveyed all 399 physicians from internal medicine, pediatrics, and psychiatry specialties at one institution regarding obesity care attitudes, competency, including physician report of percent of their patients who lose weight. We performed a factor analysis on the attitude items and used hierarchical regression analysis to explore the degree to which competency, reported weight loss, physician, training and practice characteristics explained the variance in each attitude factor.
Groups of eight animals were inoculated intraperitoneally with 5 x 106 C. albicans 7, 14 or 21 days after tumor implantation. After 24 or 72 hours, the animals were euthanized and intraperitoneal lavage fluid was collected. Peritoneal macrophages were cultivated and the levels of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-12, IL-10 and IL-4 released into the supernatants were measured by ELISA. Kidney, liver and spleen samples were evaluated for fungal dissemination. Tumor-free animals and animals that had only been subjected to C. albicans infection were used as control groups.
We mapped mitotic recombination boundaries ("breakpoints") between the centromere (~50 Mb) and APC (~112 Mb) in early colorectal tumours.
To decipher the regulatory elements controlling astrocyte-mediated neurotoxicity in glaucoma, we conducted a systems-level functional analysis of gene expression, proteomic and genetic data associated with reactive optic nerve head astrocytes (ONHAs).
Autistic symptomatology according to the DSM-IV-criteria and the Gillberg &amp; Gillberg research criteria, patterns of comorbid psychopathology and psychosocial outcome were assessed in 122 consecutively referred adults with normal intelligence ASDs. The subjects consisted of 5 patients with autistic disorder (AD), 67 with Asperger's disorder (AS) and 50 with pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD NOS). This study group consists of subjects pooled from two studies with highly similar protocols, all seen on an outpatient basis by one of three clinicians.
We used secondary data which was collected by the 2006 Urban Health Survey. The data were representative for the urban areas in Bangladesh. Both slums and non-slums located in the six City Corporations were considered. Slums in the cities were identified by two steps, first by using the satellite images and secondly by ground truthing. At the next stage, several clusters of households were selected by using proportional sampling. Then from each of the selected clusters, about 25 households were randomly selected. Information of a total of 12,155 adult men, aged 15-59 years, was analyzed by stratifying them into slum (= 6,488) and non-slum (= 5,667) groups. Simple frequency, bivariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed using SPSS.
We retrospectively reviewed the charts of approximately 1400 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, vasculitis, and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) that were followed at the outpatient clinic of a German University hospital during the years 2000-2007. Episodes of admission to a ward resulting in the diagnosis of pneumonia/pneumonitis were identified, and the type of pneumonia and clinical features retrospectively studied.
Cross sectional telephone survey using random digit dialling.
Interviews by telephone between 8 and 12 May.
997 adults aged 18 or more who had heard of swine flu and spoke English.
Recommended change in behaviour (increases in handwashing and surface cleaning or plans made with a "flu friend") and avoidance behaviours (engaged in one or more of six behaviours such as avoiding large crowds or public transport).
Prospective population based study with an average follow-up of 21 years.
Kuopio and Joensuu regions in eastern Finland.
Participants were derived from random, population based samples previously investigated in 1972, 1977, 1982, or 1987; 1449 individuals (73%), aged 65-79, underwent re-examination in 1998.
Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment.
Plausibility study using three nationally representative cross sectional household and health facility surveys, timed to take place early, mid-way, and at the end of the roll out of the national programme.
The Tanzania National Voucher Scheme was implemented in antenatal services, and phased in on a district by district basis from October 2004 covering all of mainland Tanzania in May 2006.
6115, 6260, and 6198 households (in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively) in a representative sample of 21 districts (out of a total of 113).
A voucher worth $2.45 ( pound1.47, euro1.74) to be used as part payment for the purchase of a net from a local shop was given to every pregnant woman attending antenatal services.
Insecticide treated net coverage was measured as household ownership of at least one net and use of a net the night before the survey. Socioeconomic distribution of nets was examined using an asset based index.
Compiled code implemented in Java is freely available for download at http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/software/luna/. Documentation with methodological background, technical aspects, download and setup instructions, interface description and tutorial are available at http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/software/luna/doc/luna-doc.pdf.
The source code of NTAP is freely available at http://ntap.cbi.pku.edu.cn/. It is implemented in Perl and R and can be used on Linux, Mac and Windows platforms.
I analyse simulated data consisting of populations at Hardy-Weinberg and linkage equilibrium and also data simulated under a scenario of isolation-by-distance at mutation-migration-drift equilibrium. Arabidopsis thaliana data previously analysed with this method are also reconsidered.
Cross-sectional cohort.
This is a pilot and prospective study involving 30 women, aged between 14 and 51 years, with HPV genital infection, confirmed by histopathology. All the patients were submitted to the exam and sample collection by swabbing the oral and genital mucosas in order to test for HPV DNA through the PCR technique.
We carried out a historical cohort by retrospective analysis of the charts of patients submitted to thyroidectomy, and 33 of them (10.4%) had substernal goiter.
sixteen female and nine male patients with a defined diagnosis of multiple sclerosis took part in this study. All individuals underwent hearing and EAEP tests. The wave forms were categorized according to Jerger (1986).
Clinical-prospective.
Analysis of eight patients consecutively submitted to TL with TEV and VP, without vocal emission, with PES spasms seen through videofluoroscopy, considered the gold standard for spasm detection. All had their spasms treated with the injection of 100 units of BT in the PES. The assessment was based on PES videofluoroscopy and CM, before and after BT injection.
We assessed 31 dysphonic women, with age ranging between 18 and 45 years, with vocal alteration and a diagnosis of nodules, middle-posterior cleft and cyst, and we carried out a summarized evaluation of the sensory-motor and oral systems and the patients were submitted to video-laryngostroboscopy and nasal and laryngeal fibroscopy. Three distinct groups were selected: patients with bilateral nodules, clefts and cysts, with similar glottic configuration. Their vocal tracts were visually analyzed through exams of nasal and laryngeal fibroscopy, by speech and hearing therapists and otorhinolaryngologists, checking the following parameters: supraglottic constriction, larynx vertical mobility, pharyngeal constriction and tongue mobility. The data was statistically described and treated.
From a sample of 3,000 foreign bodies, during 40 years, we analyzed four which had extra-lumen migration. We analyzed clinical, radiologic, endoscopic and ultrasound data collected at the medical documentation service.
22 New Zealand rabbits were used. In 20 a cellulose blanket was implanted in the nasal dorsum and 2 served as controls. They were followed up through a period of three and six months, after which their nostrils and nasal dorsums were removed and histological studies were carried out on them, considering defined parameters of inflammation such as vascular congestion, intensity of the inflammatory process and presence of purulent exudate.
Twenty children (7 to 11 years) with CP were submitted to sound location tests (SL), memory for verbal sounds (MSSV) and non verbal sounds in sequence (MSSNV), Revised auditory fusion (AFT-R), Pediatric test of speech intelligibility/synthetic sentences (PSI/SSI), alternate disyllables (SSW) and digit dichotic (DD). The children performances in the tests were classified in bad and good.
We considered all deaths by laryngeal cancer in residents of Pernambuco State between 2000 and 2004, taken from the State's Mortality Information System (SIM/SUS). The data was analyzed through descriptive statistics, with the results expressed in tables, graphs and maps, using Excel version 2000 and the EpiInfo version 6.04 b software.
We studied 40 patients with this association, from a total of 2758 cases of facial paralysis seen during this time in the department of facial nerve disorders. All the patients were clinically assessed and had epidemiological data, prognostics and evolution.
330 individuals from both genders and age ranging between 7 and 34 years participated in this study, they all had normal hearing and did not have any risk factor for mental problems.
We studied newborns (NB) submitted to Newborn Auditory Screening (NAS) by transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOE), cochlear-eyelid reflex (CER) and Brainstem Evoked Auditory Potential (BEAP).
A research questionnaire randomly given to 100 elderly patients in a tertiary hospital, asking about tinnitus characteristics, its impact on the life of the patient, and personal medical history.
Histological cross-sections of oral lichen planus and epidermoid carcinoma, dyed by hematoxylineosin, were analyzed through light microscopy.
All patients who had thyroid surgery for nodular disease and previous USG-guided FNAB in 2006 were prospectively analyzed. They underwent intraoperative FS evaluation, and the biopsy material was classified as benign, malignant or follicular neoplasm. FNAB, FS and paraffin sections were compared.
We assessed three dimensional images from the cochlea of six cadavers. By overlapping digitalized rulers on these images it was possible to measure cochlear length.
170 patients between the ages of 6 and 55 years were prospectively evaluated in this study, all of them underwent both otorhinolaryngological and speech evaluation. Data on breathing, chewing, swallowing and speaking was gathered, as well as data from the medical evaluation. The data was compared and statistically analyzed.
A prospective clinical study was undertaken with a group of dysphonic patients using an internationally validated voice-related quality-of-life protocol. A statistical analysis of the results was carried out, not distinguishing between those who use their voices professionally and those who don't.
Prospective, double blind, randomized trial.
49 patients divided in 3 groups underwent endoscopic sinus surgery, using only topical solutions of adrenaline in different concentrations (1:2,000, 1:10,000 and 1:50,000). We compared the duration of surgery, intra-operative bleeding, plasmatic levels of catecholamines, hemodynamic parameters and changes in heart rhythm.
This is a clinical retrospective case study where nine patients suffering of chronic zinc deficiency had their serum zinc determined and were submitted to videonystagmography. Results were compared to a normal (control) group.
All cases diagnosed with erythroplakia and speckled leukoplakia between 1978 and 2006 were retrieved from the service archives.
We carried out a retrospective analysis of threshold tonal audiometry exams of 37 senior citizens with posterior semicircular canal BPPV and also of 37 elderly without complaints of dizziness and/or vertigo, and we studied the audiologic characteristics of the two groups.
An analysis was made of previous studies on allergen exposure done with a similar methodology in the central region of Brazil; the study included homes, hotels, cinemas, cars, taxis, buses and scholar transportation.
Prospective study over six months in the Cancerology Unit of Treichville Training Hospital. It includes 120 patients who had questioning and physical examination including pain evaluation by the VAS.
Retrospective review of the epidemiologic and pathologic features of the ovary tumours in childhood (0 to 15 years), observed from 1988 to 2007 at the laboratory of pathology of the Tokoin teaching hospital in Lomé, Togo.
Multivariate prognostic factor study in 219 patients (pts), median age 48 years, with stage T1b1 &gt; 2 cm to T2b cervical cancers treated in 91% by primary radio- +/- chemotherapy. All had a pretherapeutic laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy, and 166 pts. had their tumour volume assessed by MRI. Patient and tumour characteristics were considered for analysis.
Miniorgan cultures (MOC) of fresh biopsied human nasal mucosa were used to keep cells in their microenvironment and thus to mimic in vivo conditions. MOC were pretreated with dexamethasone and alpha-tocopherol in different concentrations on 1 or on 5 days before oxidative DNA damage was introduced by hydrogen peroxide. The effect of these substances on DNA damage was evaluated using the alkaline single cell microgel electrophoresis (Comet Assay).
Infrared thermal imaging was used to detect changes in rat skin surface temperature associated with experimental cancer development (Walker 256 carcinoma), inflammation (upon s.c. Sephadex injection) and haematoma (provoked by s.c. blood coagulate injection). Infrared camera with a geometric resolution of 76,800 pixels, spectral range of 8-14 microm and the minimal detectable temperature resolution of 0.07 degrees C with spatial resolution of 0.48 mm at measuring distance of 30 cm was used to obtain computerised thermal scans. Genuine ThermoWEB software developed for remote internet control as open source software was used.
The expression of alpha 2, 3-linked sialic acid residues in 100 cases of gastric cancer samples was evaluated using Maackia amurensis leukoagglutinin (MAL) histochemical staining analysis. The assays of cytochemical staining and flow cytometry were employed to determine the MAL positive cells in the gastric cancer cell lines. The activities of invasion and migration were evaluated using the assays of cell adhesion and transwell chamber.
The study consisted in the comparison of 96 hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) cases and 222 controls without HCC matched for age, gender and ethnicity. PCR-RFLP and sequencing methods were used to determine the genotype at the MDM2 SNP309T&gt;G locus.
All pathology reports for oral (ICD-O-3 C01-C06) soft tissue biopsies generated during 1/2004-5/2005 by seven PR and two New York City (NYC) pathology laboratories were reviewed. The analysis was restricted to persons diagnosed with invasive oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), epithelial dysplasia, or hyperkeratosis/epithelial hyperplasia (HK/EH), i.e., diagnoses associated with lesions clinically suspicious for OC/precancer. The OC relative frequency measured the percentage of persons diagnosed with OSCC among persons with OSCC, dysplasia, or HK/EH. OC relative frequencies for PR and NYC laboratories were compared.
Data from a cohort of women were evaluated for regularity of screening and ethnicity utilizing multi-category logistic regression models to investigate Pap test and biopsy results.
We conducted a case-control analysis of 150 subjects with lung cancer and 329 controls with no personal history of the disease. The three statistically inferred GSTP1 promoter haplotypes were confirmed experimentally through cloning and sequencing. Haplotype-tagging SNPs were selected and GSTP1 haplotypes were tested for genetic association to lung cancer using unconditional logistic regression after adjusting for confounders. Statistical interaction between GSTP1 promoter haplotypes with either cigarette smoking or dietary fruit and vegetable intake were tested using the likelihood ratio test.
We extracted data from 12 case-control studies, three cohort studies, and the Pooling Project of Diet and Cancer publication for which 13 international cohorts were evaluated. Random effects meta-analysis models were used to calculate summary relative risk estimates (SRRE) based on high vs. low intake values. Sensitivity and influence analyses were conducted, including assessments of heterogeneity.
In a hospital-based case-control study of 208 cases and 212 controls matched on age and gender, genotypes were determined by PCR-based methods. Risks were evaluated by unconditional logistic regression analysis.
Ten healthy volunteers (all male) were included in the study, based on their haematocrit levels (42.6 +/- 0.96). Using a heparinised 50-ml syringe, 40 cm(3) of blood were drawn from the antecubital veins of fasting volunteers. Six ml of blood were haemodiluted with 2 ml of albumin (20%), 2 ml of Ringer's lactate containing albumin (1.3%), and 2 ml of Ringer's lactate, in order to simulate cardiopulmonary bypass conditions. Test tubes with the solutions were placed in a 15 degrees C water bath for 25 minutes. Viscosity was measured in the haemodiluted blood samples using an Ostwald viscometer. Relative viscosities of samples were assessed with SPSS software and the ANOVA test.
Clinical data on patients subjected to a prosthetic above-the-knee femoro-popliteal bypass for atherothrombotic disease over a four-year period in the Durban Metropolitan Vascular Service were culled from a prospectively maintained computerised database. The patients were divided into two groups, diabetic and non-diabetic.
Two-dimensional, guided M-mode echocardiography including Doppler was performed in 150 consecutive, newly diagnosed hypertensive individuals and normotensive controls aged between 35 and 74 years. Left ventricular mass index and relative wall thickness were used to classify the hypertensive individuals into four geometric patterns, and the pulsed-wave Doppler parameters obtained were used to categorise the abnormalities of diastolic function.
We analysed data from 123 patients who were on regular haemodialysis, by means of traditional transthoracic echocardiographic examination. The usual statistical parameters, correlations and the Student's t-test were performed, with levels of significance of p &lt; 0.01 and p &lt; 0.05.
A retrospective cohort study was conducted. A multivariate analysis using binary logistic regression was conducted of clinical, surgical and laboratory factors which may be associated with a CK exceeding five times the upper limit of normal (ULN).
Cross-sectional observational study.
Large primary care clinic in Marshfield, Wisconsin, USA.
Convenience sample of 20 patients with type 2 diabetes and a range of edema severity, including patients without edema.
Eight methods of edema assessment were evaluated: (1) clinical assessment of pit depth and recovery at three locations, (2) patient questionnaire, (3) ankle circumference, (4) figure-of-eight (ankle circumference using eight ankle/foot landmarks), (5) edema tester (plastic card with holes of varying size pressed to the ankle with a blood pressure cuff), (6) modified edema tester (edema tester with bumps), (7) indirect leg volume (by series of ankle/leg circumferences), and (8) foot/ankle volumetry by water displacement. Patients were evaluated independently by three nurse examiners.
A prospective randomized, double-blind, double-dummy placebo-controlled, crossover investigation of inhaled steroids and oral leukotriene blockers.
A United States Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care System outpatient setting.
Adults with type 2 diabetes and asthma or COPD.
Subjects (n=12) were randomized to receive either inhaled fluticasone propionate (440 microg twice daily) and oral placebo, or inhaled placebo and oral montelukast (10 mg/day). After 6 weeks, subjects were switched to the opposite therapy for 6 weeks. The primary outcome measure was the change in the percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin (%HbA1c) at 6 weeks relative to the baseline value.
A 7-year retrospective study of 1134 invasive breast cancer subjects. Clinical and pathologic features and survival of the four subtypes were compared.
One hundred and thirty-two patients with middle or inferior rectal cancer were admitted to our unit and underwent TME from December 1998 to February 2008. Eighty-nine patients were approached with laparoscopy. Patients staged cT3/4 cTxN+ or uTxN+ were submitted to neoadjuvant treatment. Postoperative complications and oncological outcomes were registered.
We recovered tumour samples from 92 of the 143 patients operated on for colorectal cancer in our institution between 1995 and 2000. Five MSI markers (BAT 25, BAT 26, D2S123, D5S346 and D17S250) were studied on them. The rate and clinicopathologic characteristics of MSI tumours were investigated along with their impact on the global and disease-free survival as compared with microsatellite stable (MSS) tumours.
This was a longitudinal, prospective study of 304 patients from a single centre in Catalonia, Spain. Patients underwent 1 of 3 treatment procedures: radical prostatectomy (114 patients), external beam radiation (134) or interstitial brachytherapy (56). HRQOL was assessed by both general and specific questionnaires, including the SF-36 health survey and the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC). Interviews were administered prior to treatment and at months 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24. One-way analysis of variance and generalised estimating equations models were constructed to assess between group differences in HRQOL.
We reviewed records from all patients diagnosed with conventional high-grade osteosarcoma at our institution over a 25-year period and analysed the prognostic significance of LDH in high-grade localised extremity osteosarcomas treated with chemotherapy.
Event-related functional magnetic resonance with a 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to explore brain activity during two overt oral language tasks, i.e., object naming (ON) and generation of action-verbs (GenA), in 14 non-demented PD patients using a common set of object drawings. The objects used were either man-made objects (MMO) or manipulable biological objects (MBO). Stimuli and tasks were randomized across subjects. Neuroimaging data were analyzed using SPM2.
Stepped hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemic clamps were performed on 20 subjects with Type 2 diabetes, 10 SU-treated and 10 treated with twice-daily premixed insulin, and 10 age- and weight-matched non-diabetic controls. Diabetic subjects were matched for diabetes duration, glycated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) and hypoglycaemia experience. We measured symptoms, counterregulatory hormones and cognitive function at glucose plateaux of 5, 4, 3.5, 3 and 2.5 mmol/l.
Analysis of the seasonality in diagnosis of Type 1 diabetes was based on the incidence data in 0- to 14-year-old children collected by the World Health Organization Diabetes Mondiale (WHO DiaMond) Project over the period 1990-1999. One hundred and five centres from 53 countries worldwide provided enough data for the seasonality analysis. The incidence seasonality patterns were also determined for age- and sex-specific groups.
This was a cross-sectional study in a nationally representative sample of 6739 people aged 52-79 years from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA) 2004/2005. Diabetes cases were ascertained by self-reported doctor diagnosis of diabetes. A fasting plasma glucose measurement after a minimum of 8-h fast was available for 2387 (38% of the participants without diabetes). Undiagnosed diabetes cases were based on a fasting plasma glucose &gt;or= 7.0 mmol/l.
In 51 diabetic patients, CAN, symptoms and signs of DPN, vibration perception threshold (VPT), cold (CTT) and warm thermal perception thresholds (WTT) were measured. Neuropad response was determined as normal (complete colour change) or abnormal (absent or incomplete colour change). The time until the complete colour change (CCC time) was recorded.
The JADE interactive risk engine stratifies patients into different risk levels using results from an annual comprehensive assessment of complications and risk factors. We used a prospective registry consisting of 7534 Type 2 diabetic patients [45.6% men, median (range) age 57 years (13-92)] to perform internal validation of the risk engine.
A qualitative study using focus group methodology was conducted. Sampling of patients followed the maximum variation strategy. Sample size was determined by saturation. The focus group discussions were digitally recorded and transcribed verbatim. The meaning condensation procedure was used for data analysis. The resulting meaningful concepts were linked to ICF categories according to established linking rules.
Exposure to anti-IFRx was compared between T2DM patients with a history of weight loss (n = 100) and those with no weight loss or with weight gain (n = 102) during a 1-year follow-up period. Logistic regression was used to develop odds ratios for weight loss status.
Three patient groups totalling 28 subjects with diabetes [group A 10 Type 1 (Ulm), group B 10 Type 1 (Neuss), group C eight Type 2 (Aarhus)] participated in this trial. Two CRT microdialysis probes were inserted in parallel in the abdominal subcutaneous tissue for 120 h in each subject. In subjects in group A, glucose excursions were induced on one study day and those in group B underwent a glucose clamp (eu-, hypo- or hyperglycaemic) on one study day. CRT data were calibrated once with a retrospective calibration model based on a run-in time of 24 h and three blood glucose measurements per day.
In this 52-week randomized, multi-centre, open-label study, 295 subjects managed with diet and exercise and/or oral glucose-lowering medications received either exenatide QW or BID during weeks 1-30; thereafter, subjects receiving exenatide BID were switched to exenatide QW, with 258 total subjects receiving exenatide QW during weeks 30-52. Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire-status (DTSQ-s) and Impact of Weight on Quality of Life-Lite (IWQOL-Lite) were assessed at baseline and weeks 30 and 52. Mean group changes from baseline to week 30 were estimated by ancova; changes from week 30 to week 52 were assessed by Student's t-test.
We studied 366 in-patients with insulin-treated diabetes at a single UK centre. We developed a 19-item DTSQ-IP to assess in-patient diabetes treatment satisfaction, and collected data on in-patient length of stay (LOS) and in-patient care at the same time.
We measured apoC-II and apoC-III in total plasma and in non-high-density lipoprotein fractions by an immunoturbidimetric assay in 88 Caucasian Type 2 diabetic patients and in 138 healthy control subjects.
We used a structured questionnaire to ask fifty healthcare professionals how 'dangerous' a given blood glucose value was. Their answers were modelled to produce an algorithm of assessed risk. To examine if patients (and their carers) would apportion a similar level of risk to that of healthcare professionals, the same questionnaire was issued to fifty children and adolescents with Type 1 diabetes. For patients under 8 years old the carers completed the questionnaires (n = 23). Both patient and carers together completed the questionnaire for those aged 8-11 years (n = 15) and patients over the age of 11 years completed the questionnaire themselves (n = 12). The median results and interquartile range of the assessed level of risk, as determined by the two groups, were compared using a generalized linear model.
The ionic liquids were oxidized in dilute aqueous solution in the presence of two different concentrations of hydrogen peroxide. All reactions were performed in the dark to prevent photoreduction of Fe(III). The concentrations of ionic liquids during the process were monitored with high-performance liquid chromatography. Preliminary degradation pathways were studied with the aid of (1)H NMR.
The alga Chlorella vulgaris was maintained in the algal growth medium HB IV. The inhibition of algal growth was determined by measuring optical density at 680 nm (OD(680)). Initially, DM and two selected breakdown products were added to the algal cultures, and following degradation experiments analyses were carried out by high performance liquid chromatography. In addition, the possible relationship between DM degradation and toxicity was assessed, based on physico-chemical properties of the compounds and their toxicity.
Two vineyard soils with different properties were chosen as experimental samples. They were sampled from 0 to 10 cm, dried, and sieved to 2 mm. Each soil was spiked with copper sulfate solution to obtain the following total soil Cu concentrations: 100, 200, 400, 800, and 1,600 mg.kg(-1). The treated soils were incubated for 2 weeks and then dried at 20 degrees C. For each soil sample and at each soil Cu concentration, the adsorption of lambda-CHT and CPM was measured using a batch equilibrium method. The concentration of lambda-CHT was determined by HPLC, and the amount of lambda-CHT and CPM adsorbed by the soil sample at equilibrium was determined by the difference between the initial and equilibrium concentrations in solution corrected by the blank adsorption measurement.
Powdered samples of two different color-type patinas (ochre-orange and brownish) were collected in the external and internal parts of the stained glass windows of the Prebystery and Chapter House of the Pedralbes Monastery by using a precision (odontological) drill. These patinas were subsequently analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).
Test systems used in basic research to elucidate the olfactory cascade and the communication of environmental organisms by infochemicals are plentiful. Some of them might be the basis for a quantified ecotoxicological analysis of the infochemical effect. In principle, test systems for the infochemical effect could be developed at each step of the chemosensory signal transduction and processing cascade.
Common laboratory strain of E. coli (K12) was used and the effects of two emitted wavelengths (269 and 276 nm) were investigated with two photolytic batch reactors both including ten LEDs. The effects of test medium were examined with ultrapure water, nutrient and water, and nutrient and water with humic acids.
Effluents of 20 different industrial units were characterized by 24 attributes. Comparing these with corresponding irrigation water quality standards, the probability of their reuse was interpreted in the first approach. On the basis of relevant properties of major soil types dominated in a particular region, the soil-based usability of effluent was worked out in the second approach. By emphasizing the limitation of groundwater development where it went beyond 50% exploitation level, the land form and major soil type were then identified by applying a soil-based effluent reuse approach; the area-specific suitability of its use was perceived in the third approach.
The following parameters were determined in relation with Staroe lake: (1) the current quality of the lake's water-each 1,000-ml sample was collected at a surface point and a deep point (near the bottom layer), and the collected samples were directly analyzed after filtration; (2) atmospheric bulk deposition-bulk deposition was collected using a set of three rainwater samplers near the lake. In addition, bulk deposition was collected in a background site (250 km to the southwest of the smelter complex) as a reference; and (3) sediment profile (plus principal component analysis)-lake-bottom sediment was collected by an open-gravimetric column sampler equipped with an automatic diaphragm. After collection, the sample columns were cut at a 1-cm interval for analysis. Eigenvalues and variances by factor were calculated from the correlation coefficients.
Trichiurus lepturus (Actinopterygii: Perciformes) is a pscivorous marine straggler. Fish from this species (n = 104) were captured in a trapping barrier used by the local traditional population and using an otter trawl net along the main channel of the low estuary during two dry seasons (D1 = November, December 2005, January 2006; D2 = November, December 2006, January 2007) and the end of a rainy season (R = August, September, October 2006). Fish muscle samples were preserved cold and then freeze-dried prior to analysis of its total mercury (Hg-T) contents. Total mercury was determined by cold vapor atomic absorption spectrometry (CV-AAS) with sodium borohydride as a reducing agent.
Surface sediment samples (146 in total) were collected at various points along the Swedish coast and offshore areas. In addition, bulk deposition was sampled, monthly, at a single site in northern Sweden during 1 year. The concentrations of tetra- through octa-substituted CDD/Fs were determined in both matrices.
Rapid ecological assessment based on a SPOT 5 image and field survey was used to simulate the vegetation of the whole area based on reference ecological factors of the GIS system. The vegetation map of the site was thus derived from this simulation. Based on the previous studies, the three vegetation types were identified as the suitable habitat of the monkeys. The confusion matrix-based field GPS points were applied to analyze the precision of the habitat map. Based on the map of suitable habitat of the monkeys, the utilization of the habitat and the carrying capacity were analyzed in the GIS.
Many independent experiments were performed on the individual processes in gene flow. The results comprise information both from laboratory, growth chambers and field trials, and they were generated using molecular or phenotypic markers and analysis of fitness parameters. Monitoring of the extent of spontaneous introgression in natural populations was also performed. Modelling was used as an additional tool to identify key parameters in gene flow.
Within this article, we intend to elucidate the merits and the emerging challenges of chemicals-related environmental sciences. The manuscript is supported by more than 70 professors and university academics of leading institutions in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, and other countries in Europe, but addresses topics of global concern.
In this open-label phase II study, patients were randomised to receive morning or evening dosing of sunitinib 37.5mg/day. The primary end-point was clinical benefit rate (CBR; percent complete responses+partial responses [PRs]+stable disease [SD] 24 weeks). Secondary end-points included progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), safety, pharmacokinetic parameters and plasma biomarker levels.
A 31-item LENT-SOMA patient questionnaire was administered prospectively to 220 patients pre-treatment and at eight time periods post-radical head and neck radiotherapy over 3 years. Exploratory factor analysis was carried out and questionnaire reliability was evaluated using Cronbach's alpha coefficient.
Sixty-six patients (median age, 13.4 years) with newly diagnosed, localised disease completed three HRQOL instruments, and their parents completed two of the same instruments at diagnosis, before surgery (Week 12), at Week 23 and a median of 20 weeks after treatment completion.
The effect of R(+)XK469 on S-warfarin hydroxylation was determined by the measurement of S-7-hydroxywarfarin formation in pooled human liver microsomes and cDNA-expressed CYP2C9.
We performed a review of the data on the prognostic and/or predictive value of molecular markers for cytotoxic drugs in CRC. The following markers were included: dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, orotate phosphoribosyl transferase, thymidine phosphorylase, thymidylate synthase, mismatch repair deficiency, topoisomerase 1, excision cross-complementing gene and carboxylesterases.
Twenty-five patients with subacute or chronic stroke were included in the study. At the beginning, all the patients received a conventional rehabilitation programme for 3 weeks. Seventeen patients who had no improvement in upper extremity functioning with this conventional programme received CIMT for 3 weeks. Active range of motion (ROM) and modified Ashworth scale of the plegic upper extremity were noted; Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT) and KFET were performed to each patient before and after CIMT.
Several electronic databases were searched up to January 2007. The review considered randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-randomised studies of children aged 3 to 16 years with acquired dysarthria grouped by aetiology (e.g., brain tumour, traumatic brain injury, cerebrovascular accident). Both authors independently assessed the titles and abstracts for relevance (100% inter-rater reliability) and the full text version of all potentially relevant articles was obtained. No studies met inclusion criteria.
Motor function and QoL of 16 (9 males and 7 females) consecutive stroke survivors (60.68+/-9.78 years) recruited from a Nigerian tertiary health facility in Ibadan were assessed within four weeks of stroke onset (baseline) and monthly for five consecutive months using the Modified Motor Assessment Scale (MMAS) and World Health Organization's WHOQoL BREF questionnaire respectively. Friedman's ANOVA was used to study the pattern of each construct across the study period, while relationship between the MMAS and WHOQoLBREF at the first and sixth month post-stroke was computed using Spearman's correlation coefficient at 0.05 alpha.
Twenty chronic hemiparetic stroke patients presenting with a stiff-knee gait performed an instrumented gait analysis at the same walking speed before and 2 months after BoNT-A injection in several spastic muscles. We used the kinematic recordings previously obtained by Caty et al. [Caty GD, Detrembleur C, Bleyenheuft C, Deltombe T, Lejeune TM. Effect of simultaneous botulinum toxin injections into several muscles on impairment, activity, participation, and quality of life among stroke patients presenting with a stiff knee gait. Stroke 2008;39(October (10)):2803-8] and computed KSC following Borghese's methodology. The treatment effect was tested using a repeated measures ANOVA.
Individuals with PN and age-matched controls were assessed for functional gait by the 6-min walk and timed up-and-go tests. Leg strength was measured as isokinetic peak torque of the knee extensors. Standing balance was assessed by center-of-pressure sway velocity and area during quiet stance. Locomotor kinematics from treadmill walking were used to compute stride duration variability and local instability (i.e., finite-time Lyapunov exponents), which estimate kinematic divergence caused by small-scale perturbations.
A total of 28 subjects were recruited for the study of which 14 were clinically diagnosed with hallux valgus. A custom built platform was used to collect peak pressure and shear data. A repeated measures analysis of variance was used to analyze the recorded data.
In addition to the historical evolution of the robotic assisted surgery medicine, a survey of robotic cases was performed on two robotic programs since the inception of the programs. A review of the current literature on the use of the da Vinci robot in gynecologic oncology was also performed.
A total of 67 patients with chronic pruritus caused by different skin diseases or chronic pruritus of unknown origin were treated with levocetirizine 10 mg/fexofenadine 360 mg or levocetirizine 10 mg/fexofenadine 360 mg/azelastine 4 mg or desloratadine 20 mg per day.
Ten electronic databases and internet resources were searched from 2003 to February 2007, including MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process, EMBASE, BIOSIS, CENTRAL and CINAHL.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of clopidogrel plus aspirin compared with aspirin alone were used to evaluate clinical effectiveness and safety. Inclusion criteria included any comparator trial for duration of treatment studies, and any study design conducted in patients with NSTE-ACS, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), stroke, peripheral artery disease (PAD) or ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) for evidence of rebound on withdrawal of treatment. The existing model was updated to provide a more robust approach to evaluating the cost-effectiveness of alternative durations of clopidogrel and to assess the potential value of further research using value of information approaches.
Gelatin zymography was performed on 157 tissue extracts of malignant and adjacent normal breast tissues as well as negative and positive lymph nodes from 49 breast cancer patients. Statistical analysis was carried out using SPSS statistical software (version 10).
This study is designed with 130 study subjects for analysis of selected types of HPV 6/11 and 16/18, in four groups, in a course of three years. The Bethesda system of classification is followed for grouping the samples, using histopathologic examination in biopsies.
The biopsy samples were collected in 10% buffered formalin and were embedded in paraffin within 24 hours, for long-term preservation. The presence of HPV types were tested by PCR using type-specific primers for HPV16 and HPV18 in the DNA isolated from the subject's biopsies. The stages of cervical lesions were identified by histopathology using the Hematoxylin Eosin stain.
The data were subjected to statistical analysis, using the SPSS and INSTAT software packages for their associations and risk estimation, respectively. The Graph Pad Prism 2 x 2 contingency table was used for risk estimation and the Kruskel Wallis test was used for analysis of the associations.
The descriptive survey was conducted to determine the practices of nurses and midwives and their attitude toward BSE. It tried to cover the total population rather than sampling part of it. However, 15 nurses and midwives, where there were errors detected in their data coding papers, and who did not accept to join the study, were excluded from the study. A total of 80 nurses and midwives were included in the study group.
This survey was carried out at the State Hospital, all Public Health Cabins, and Family Health Centers, in the rural area of Izmir, a city located in the western region of Turkey. The data was collected between 15 March and 1 April 2004.
The analysis included descriptive statistics, to examine the association between BSE and medical history, knowledge of BSE, and attitude toward BSE.
In total, 28 patients (mean age 52.1 +/- 12.8 years) with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis, treated from January 2000 to June 2008, were retrospectively studied with regard to clinical presentation, time of LND, and the outcome. The patients were divided into two groups based on the time for LND. Group 1 patients had LND at mean of 1.7 months (range 0-6 months) of treatment of the primary lesion, and group 2 had LND at a mean of 14 months (range 7-24 months) after treatment of the primary lesion.
The statistical analysis of survival was done using the Kaplan-Meier method and the Log Rank test, with p &lt; 0.05 considered to be statistically significant. The Mann-Whitney test and Fisher's exact test were used for univariate comparison.
Paired tumor and normal tissue samples were collected from a consecutive series of 53 patients undergoing resective surgery for CRC. In addition blood was also collected from all the cases for ruling out germline mutation.
In this cross-sectional study, all records of pathological specimens categorized as ovarian, uterine corpus or uterine cervix cancers from 1995 to 2005, in five teaching hospitals in Tehran, were studied. Age, marriage, parity, menopausal status, smoking, oral contraceptive usage, pathological staging, and histological grading were reviewed by a trained general practitioner. SPSS 14 was used for statistical analysis.
This study assessed 13 gnathic OS patients of 98 OS patients from four major referral centers during 1996-2007. The age distribution, gender, involved site, clinical findings, signs, symptoms, grade and sub-types were assessed. Hematoxylin-eosin, Picrosirius red, Ponceau trichrome, Masson trichrome and osteoid staining methods were used.
We analyzed noninfectious, noninflammatory, benign lesions of the calcaneum seen in the Orthopedic Out Patient Department from 1991 to 2003. Twelve such tumors were encountered. There were 11 males and one female and their ages varied from 18 to 53 years with a median of 31. Data was collected from the histopathology reports, radiographs, and inpatient and outpatient records. One of the coauthors reviewed the histopathologic findings of all the tumors.
In a retrospective, interventional, consecutive case series, the records of 39 eyes of 31 patients presenting with Stage 4 retinal detachment secondary to ROP who underwent primary two or three-port lens-sparing vitrectomy from January 2000 to October 2006 were evaluated. The outcomes studied at the final follow-up visit were the retinal status, lens and medial clarity and visual acuity . Favorable anatomical outcome was defined as the retinal reattachment of the posterior pole at two months after the surgery; and favorable functional outcome was defined as a central, steady and maintained fixation, with the child following light.
Retrospective analysis of a non-comparative series from the database was done. All the patients presenting with corneal stromal infiltrate underwent standard microbiologic evaluation of their corneal scrapings, and smear and culture-guided antimicrobial therapy.
This prospective observational study included patients with manifest, horizontal, comitant deviation&gt; 10 prism diopter (PD). Inter-eye acuity difference (IEAD) was calculated by converting Snellen visual acuity to logMAR and was compared with BFP testing. The fixation behavior of the non-preferred eye was evaluated by a single investigator as central or uncentral, steady or unsteady and maintained or unmaintained. Amblyopia was defined as the IEAD of&gt; 0.2 logMAR.
In this cohort study, an eight-question quality-of-life instrument was administered by trained staff to the guardians of strabismic children from rural and urban areas by a live interview.
In this study 21 CLW (Mean age 23 +/- 3 years ; M-2, F-19), who were daily wear users, with duration of wear not more than four years, along with age-matched 28 controls (Mean age 28 +/- 3 ; M-15, F-13) were recruited in the study for collection of reflex tears using Schirmer's strip. Ascorbic acid in tears was determined using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and total protein assay by spectrophotometric analysis.
Cross-sectional study.
Ophthalmologists assessed vision, ocular pressure, ocular media and posterior segment to note ocular manifestations among patients with DM. DR was graded by using bio-microscope and Volk lens. The prevalence and 95% confidence interval of ocular complications of DM were calculated. Risk factors of DR like age, sex, duration of diabetes and hypertension were evaluated.
Univariate and multivariate analysis.
The 30-cluster sampling technique based on probability proportional to size advocated by the World Health Organization was used to assess vitamin A-first dose supplement amongst 210 children in the age group of 12-23 months residing in slums of a randomly selected municipal zone of Delhi during October to November 2005.
Twenty-six ovarian cancer specimens were obtained during ovarian cancer debulking, and tumor slices were prepared with the Krumdieck tissue slicer. The tumor slices were exposed to varying concentrations of TRA-8, carboplatin/paclitaxel, or the combination of TRA-8 and chemotherapy. Using nonlinear modeling, dose-response curves and IC50 values were generated for specimens treated with TRA-8. The additive and synergistic cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy combination with TRA-8 were evaluated in specimens. In addition to adenosine triphosphate viability assays, the treated and untreated slices were assessed by immunohistochemistry to confirm apoptosis induction.
Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 101 patients with newly diagnosed ovarian cancer were used for immunohistochemical staining for the ERCC1 protein. All patients received carboplatin-paclitaxel combination chemotherapy.
A retrospective case series of 45 consecutive patients who underwent prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy between 2004 and March 2008.
Eligible patients were those with epithelial ovarian carcinoma or primary peritoneal carcinoma stages II to IV who underwent initial surgery and had a residual tumor size of 2 cm or larger. Patients received IV paclitaxel 175 mg/m followed by intraperitoneal carboplatin AUC6. The primary end point was a response. Secondary end points were toxicity, progression-free survival, and overall survival.
Review of patients with PSC who underwent cytoreductive surgery in our institution with a follow-up of more than 18 months (the ovarian or peritoneal tumor was histologically reviewed by our reference pathologist).
A retrospective review was performed on patients with EOC and PPC diagnosed with BMD from 1983 to 2007 at our institution.
The study cohort consisted of 115 consecutive women undergoing explorative laparotomy because of endometrioid endometrial cancer. Clinical data included patients' age, comorbidities, chronic use of medications, body mass index (kg/m), previous surgical procedures, surgical International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage, histological grade, relevant prognostic factors, a number of dissected lymph nodes, occurrence of perioperative complications, postoperative hospital stay (in days), and long-term disease-specific survival (in months).
A total of 191 patients with endometrial cancer, who underwent hysterectomy from 1995 to 2007 in Tottori University Hospital, were included in this study. One hundred seventy-four patients underwent endometrial curettage or Pipelle biopsy preoperatively. Histological grade was compared between preoperation and postoperation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed before surgery, and the depth of MI was assessed as 3 levels (no MI, &lt;50%, and &gt;50%). During surgery, the uterine wall was incised at the most invasive part, and then, intraoperative gross assessment was evaluated as less than or greater than 50%.
Full-length HIF-1alpha (fL HIF-1alpha) and dominant-negative HIF-1alpha (dn HIF-1alpha) were transfected into UCC SiHa cells. The expression of HIF-1alpha and its targets such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), and human growth and transformation-dependent protein (HGTD-P) was detected by immunocytochemistry, Western blot, and semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration were surveyed by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling staining, and scratching test.
This was a retrospective study of patients with locoregionally advanced cervical cancer staged by examination under anesthesia and pretreatment MRI and PET. Potential prognostic factors examined were derived from either clinical evaluation (age, FIGO stage, clinical diameter, histology), MRI (corpus invasion, tumor volume), or PET (lymph node metastasis). Outcome measures examined were overall survival, relapse-free survival, time to failure, local failure, nodal failure, and distant failure.
The infections of HPV in a total of 175 cases of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples, including 71 low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL), 27 high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), and 77 CC were detected by the combination of consensus primers nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and type-specific primers nested PCR.
This was a multicenter, open-label, single-arm trial evaluating the toxicity and efficacy of oral erlotinib at an initial dosage of 150 mg daily until progressive disease or adverse effects prohibited further therapy.
Data files of 2 international screening trials, the NIS (n = 3187) and the LAMS (n = 12,114) study cohorts, were combined, and a subcohort of 1865 (n = 854 and n = 1011 for the NIS and the LAMS, respectively) women prospectively followed up for 19.7 (median, 22.2) months was analyzed for different intermediate end-point markers of disease progression to squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL), cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 1 and higher (CIN1+), and CIN grade 2 and higher (CIN2+) as terminal events.
Forty-three consecutive patients with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage IB2 to IIB uterine cervical cancer were treated with intravenous paclitaxel (60 mg/m), followed by intravenous cisplatin (60 mg/m) every 10 days. Two weeks after the third cycle of chemotherapy, the patients underwent surgery or radiation therapy, depending on overall condition. They were followed up, and 5-year survival rates and factors affecting prognosis were evaluated.
Bone marrow aspirates from 377 patients with primary ovarian (112), endometrial (141), cervical (102), and vulvar cancer (22) undergoing surgery at the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital, Tuebingen, Germany between November 2001 and November 2007, were included into the study. Disseminated tumor cells were identified by immunocytochemistry using the pancytokeratin antibody A45B/B3 and by cytomorphology.
Patients with cervical cancer who underwent RH have been enrolled in a questionnaire-based study. Quality of life (QoL) and bladder, intestinal, and sexual dysfunctions were evaluated with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cervix (FACT-Cx). Patients were grouped according to the type of RH: group 1, class II RH and group 2, class III nerve-sparing RH (NSRH).
A retrospective study was conducted on LRH + LPL in 117 cases of cervical cancer with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stages Ib (n = 96) and II a (n = 21) from August 1998 to December 2006. The intraoperative and postoperative complications were analyzed.
Three hundred five patients who needed an MPE were analyzed from 9 French cancer centers. One hundred sixty-eight MPEs were performed during initial surgery (55.1%), 69 during interval surgery (22.6%), 36 after chemotherapy (11.8%), and 32 for recurrences (10.5%).
To evaluate the current patterns of care, a questionnaire with 48 items was sent to 40 Society of Gynecologic Oncologists member clinics with fellowship programs and all 38 German teaching hospitals for gynecologic oncology.
Our database was searched for all women who had a laparotomy for advanced stage (stages III and IV) ovarian cancer between January 2001 and December 2007. Women who had the word(s) "ureteric," "ureter," "stent," "stents," and "stented" either in their operation notes or the multidisciplinary meeting discussions were filtered to identify those who had a ureteric stent inserted. Stents inserted because of excision/injury to ureters with reanastomosis or reinsertion to bladder were excluded.
We designed and built a non-invasive, computerized system that automatically initiates VNS following the real-time detection of a pre-identified seizure or epileptiform discharge. The system detects these events through patient-specific analysis of the scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) and electrocardiogram (ECG) signals.
Nine men completed 3 trials in a randomized counterbalanced order, with trials separated by at least 7 days. Two hours before the run after an overnight fast, each participant consumed a high-GI (GI = 83) or low-GI (GI = 36) CHO meal or low-energy sugar-free Jell-O (GI = 0, control). The 2 isocaloric GI meals provided 1.5 g available CHO/kg body mass. During each trial, 2 ml/kg body mass of a 6.6% CHO-electrolyte solution was provided immediately before exercise and every 2.5 km after the start of running. Each trial consisted of a 21-km performance run on a level treadmill. The participants were required to run at 70% VO2max during the first 5 km of the run. They then completed the remaining 16 km as fast as possible.
TAS, protein, and enzyme activities were measured spectrophotometrically before and after 2 and 3 hr of exercise without or with L-cys administration.
This study examined 73 bifurcation lesions with post-procedural and 9-month follow-up intravascular ultrasound images for both main vessel (MV) and SB. All lesions were treated with drug-eluting stents using the T-stenting technique. Analysis included 5 distinct locations: MV proximal stent, MV middle area, MV distal stent, SB ostium (&lt;5 mm distal to the neocarina), and SB distal stent.
Rates of the primary composite end point (major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events) to 1 year and mortality to a median of 4.4 years in 427 patients included in the 3 randomized arms of the REACT trial (repeat lysis, conservative therapy, and R-PCI) were analyzed.
We studied 36 patients with primary AMI. Peripheral blood sampling was performed 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 12 days after AMI onset. Two monocyte subsets (CD14(+)CD16(-) and CD14(+)CD16(+)) were measured by flow cytometry. The extent of myocardial salvage 7 days after AMI was evaluated by cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging as the difference between myocardium at risk (T2-weighted hyperintense lesion) and myocardial necrosis (delayed gadolinium enhancement). Cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging was also performed 6 months after AMI.
We analyzed ECG recordings with TdP from 35 LQTS patients (15 c-LQTS and 20 a-LQTS) and compared them with premature ventricular complexes (PVCs) from 40 patients with normal QT intervals and with PVCs in 24 of the 35 LQTS patients not related to TdP.
Perfusion and CFR were assessed in 256 patients using (13)N-ammonia PET, and follow-up was obtained in 245 (96%) patients. Sixteen early revascularized patients were excluded and 229 were assigned to normal versus abnormal perfusion or normal versus abnormal CFR (&lt;2.0). Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, late revascularization, or hospitalization for cardiac reasons) were assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazard regression was used to identify independent predictors for cardiac events.
There were 488 patients transplanted for CHD from the combined Pediatric Heart Transplant Study (1993 to 2002, n = 367) and the Cardiac Transplant Registry Database (1990 to 2002, n = 121) who were analyzed.
Detailed electroanatomic mapping of the LV endocardium was performed in 17 stable control ICM patients (16 males) without clinical SMVT. They were compared with 17 ICM patients (15 males) with spontaneous SMVT. Standard definitions of low-voltage zones and fractionated, isolated, and very late potentials were used.
In the current study, we tested the effect of treatment with the chemotherapeutic agent, apigenin in combination with DNA vaccines encoding the HPV-16 E7 antigen linked to heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) in the control of the E7-expressing tumor, TC-1.
To reveal whether chromosome fidelity was decreased, the frequency of gynandromorphy, an individual with both male and female characteristics, and of non-disjunction were measured in the progeny from parents with reduced mars and/or tlk activities and analyzed by Student's t-test. To show that the genetic interaction between mars and tlk is epistatic or parallel, a cytological analysis of embryos with either reduced or increased activities of mars and/or tlk was used to reveal defects in mitotic-spindle morphology and chromosome segregation.
We screened all 2,462 completed Cochrane reviews published since 2000 in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews Issue 3, 2006. In a random sample (n=61) of 292 reviews, including unpublished trials, we studied all 116 references.
We used all 105 randomized controlled trials in the Cochrane review of NRT for smoking cessation. We obtained impact factors from the Journal Citation Reports and the number of citations from ISI Web of Knowledge and Google Scholar.
Simulations were used to estimate the error rates.
We identified 17 low back pain prognosis reviews published between 2000 and 2006. One reviewer extracted and a second checked review characteristics and results. Two reviewers independently assessed review quality.
We performed multiple-treatments meta-analysis within a Bayesian framework by synthesizing six Cochrane reviews. We explored the compatibility between direct and indirect evidence and adjusted the results using a meta-regression model to take into account differences in the year of randomization across studies.
We constructed an item bank consisting of 33 activities commonly affected by lower extremity (LE) osteoarthritis. A sample of 323 adults with LE osteoarthritis reported their degree of limitation in performing everyday activities, and completed the Health Assessment Questionnaire-II (HAQ-II). We used confirmatory factor analyses to assess scale unidimensionality and IRT methods to calibrate the items and examine the fit of the data. Using CAT simulation analyses, we examined the performance of OA-DISABILITY-CATs of different lengths compared with the full-item bank and the HAQ-II.
NNT(t) reflects the point at which the risks and costs of a clinical intervention balance the benefit. MERT defines the minimum target event risk at which the intervention is justified. Uncertainty in these measures has not previously been investigated.
Backward multivariable logistic regression (P&lt;0.05 and P&lt;0.157) was performed with possible predictors for persistent complaints in patients with nonspecific neck pain. The continuous variables were introduced in the analysis in three separate ways: (1) continuous, (2) split into multiple categories, and (3) dichotomized. The different models were compared with regard to model content, goodness of fit, explained variation, and discriminative ability. We also compared the effect on performance of categorization before and after the selection procedure.
Over three school years, 555 randomly selected fourth-grade children were interviewed to obtain a 24-hour dietary recall; before being interviewed, 374 children were observed eating two school meals (breakfast, lunch), and 181 children were not observed. Within observation-status groups (observed, unobserved), children were randomized within sex to one of six combinations from two target periods (prior 24 hours, previous day) crossed with three interview times (morning, afternoon, evening).
We encountered a meta-analysis in which a confidence interval (CI) of relative risk (RR) overlapped 1.0; the point estimate favored treatment A, but when we used RR and median baseline risk to calculate a CI for RD, a greater portion of the CI favored treatment B (a result that some may find counterintuitive). We then calculated 10 different RDs from recently published meta-analyses in outcomes in which CIs of RR crossed 1.0 using three methods: estimation from RR, estimation from the odds ratio, and pooling RDs across trials.
Review of methodological articles.
The number of authors listed per original research article published in the five general medical journals with the greatest 2004 Impact Factors in the first issue of each month in the years before and after introduction of required author contribution forms was compared.
Factor analysis of the Audit of Diabetes-Dependent Quality-of-Life (ADDQoL) items (n=385) identified plausible attributes. An expert panel provided qualitative input, including additional items. Data from three pilot rounds on patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes were analyzed using Rasch analysis (RA). In a validation survey, the final version of the CS was mailed along with the SF-12v2, Well-Being Questionnaire, and Diabetes Empowerment Scale Short Form to a convenience sample (type 1 or type 2 diabetes).
One hundred ninety-nine consecutive adults presenting to a tertiary mood disorders clinic with major depressive disorder with either atypical or melancholic features according to the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis-I Disorders were administered a self-report adult attachment questionnaire to assess the core dimensions of secure, anxious-ambivalent, and avoidant attachment. Attachment scores were compared across the 2 depressed groups defined by atypical and melancholic features using multivariate analysis of variance. The study was conducted between 1999 and 2004.
Two randomized trials were conducted to assess the benefits of adjunctive acupuncture for symptoms of depression and hypomania in patients with bipolar disorder (DSM-IV criteria). For 20 patients experiencing symptoms of hypomania, targeted acupuncture (points specific to symptoms) was compared to acupuncture points off the acupuncture meridian over 12 weeks (from May 2000 through May 2003). For patients experiencing symptoms of depression (n = 26), targeted acupuncture was compared to acupuncture for nonpsychiatric health concerns over 8 weeks (from November 2001 through May 2003). Preexisting psychotropic medications were maintained at stable doses throughout study participation.
We examined 95 hospitalized patients with schizophrenia (DSM-IV criteria) in a long-stage unit and 53 healthy controls (matched for age, gender, and years of education). Neuropsychological battery included tests for verbal memory, working memory, executive functioning, and processing speed. Functional disability was assessed at 6-month follow-up with the Disability Assessment Schedule after the neuropsychological and clinical assessment. The study was conducted from September 2005 to July 2008.
Sex- and age-matched patients with anxiety disorders (N = 33) and healthy volunteers (N = 33) were assessed on standardized and validated measures of subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index) and subclinical narcoleptic events in the form of cataplexy (Stanford Center for Narcolepsy Revised Sleep Inventory). Patients were recruited from October 2006 to January 2007 from 2 programs of the Penn State Behavioral Health Clinic.
Subjects (N = 46) who responded to selective SRIs (SSRIs) in an initial 12-week trial were continued on SSRI monotherapy plus cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for 1 year. Subjects (N = 44) who failed to respond to SSRIs were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 atypical antipsychotics -- olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone -- and were consecutively treated using SSRI + atypical antipsychotics combined with CBT for 1 year. This study was conducted from January 2006 to November 2007 at Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine Hospital, Japan.
Records of antipsychotic prescriptions for all U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs patients diagnosed with MDD (ICD-9 criteria), excluding those with comorbid schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or bipolar disorder, in the fiscal year 2007 (N = 191,522) were examined. Descriptive statistics and generalized estimating equations (GEEs) were used to identify veterans' characteristics, measures of service use, and medical center characteristics that were associated with receipt of these medications and, among such users, with use of the lower doses suggested for MDD.
The search for the psychiatric clinical manifestations of fragile X-associated conditions was accomplished by PubMed for clinical papers published between 1970 and 2008 with the following search terms: Fragile X syndrome, depression, psychosis, anxiety, and dementia.
Articles addressing psychiatric symptoms in premutation carriers based on review of the abstracts were reviewed. As the majority of the literature on this topic is based on case reports and small case series, these were included in the database.
This was a retrospective analysis of data from the 36-week Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness in Alzheimer's Disease in which patients with probable AD (diagnosed according to criteria of the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association [NINCDS/ADRDA]) were treated in a naturalistic manner. Scores were compared on the irritability, apathy, delusions, and hallucinations subscales of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. The trial was conducted between April 2001 and November 2004.
Patients were randomly assigned to 6 weeks of double-blind treatment with a fixed dose of lurasidone 80 mg (N = 90, 75.6% male, mean age = 39.7 years, mean baseline score on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale derived from the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale [BPRSd] = 55.1) or placebo (N = 90, 77.8% male, mean age = 41.9 years, mean BPRSd score = 56.1). The primary efficacy measure was the BPRSd. The study was conducted from May to December 2004.
The DEMO trial is a randomized pragmatic trial for patients with unipolar depression conducted from January 2005 through July 2007. Patients were referred from general practitioners or psychiatrists and were eligible if they fulfilled the International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision, criteria for unipolar depression and were aged between 18 and 55 years. Patients (N = 165) were allocated to supervised strength, aerobic, or relaxation training during a 4-month period. The primary outcome measure was the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D(17)), the secondary outcome measure was the percentage of days absent from work during the last 10 working days, and the tertiary outcome measure was effect on cognitive abilities.
This inpatient randomized, double-blind, placebo- and ziprasidone-controlled, 28-day study of the efficacy of iloperidone was conducted from November 2005 to September 2006. Likelihood ratios, predicted probabilities of response, and number needed to treat were calculated for patients with schizophrenia (DSM-IV criteria) using 6 genetic markers of iloperidone response as measured by change in the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale-Total (PANSS-T) score. Data analysis was performed on 409 patients of various ethnic origins.
In a prospective cohort study, 204 consecutive HCV outpatients who received PegIFN and RBV were assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders and the Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised (TCI-R). Moreover, the Patient Health Questionnaire and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale were administered at baseline and at 4, 12, 24, and/or 48 weeks of treatment. Patients were recruited between September 2003 and December 2006.
Six hundred seventy-five Israeli veterans from the 1982 Lebanon War were assessed. The clinical group consisted of 369 who had combat stress reaction (CSR) during the war, and the nonclinical group consisted of 306 veterans with no antecedent CSR. The 2 groups were matched in age, education, military rank, and assignment. They were prospectively evaluated 1, 2, and 20 years after the war.
Subjects completing a 21-day placebo-controlled trial of ziprasidone in DSM-IV acute bipolar mania (N = 65) were enrolled in a 52-week open-label extension of flexibly dosed ziprasidone 40 to 160 mg/day, administered b.i.d. Three subjects had missing evaluations (N = 62) but still provided demographic data. Subpopulations with manic (N = 43) or mixed (N = 19) episodes, and with (N = 37) or without (N = 25) psychotic symptoms, were identified. Safety evaluations included adverse event monitoring, electrocardiography, and standard laboratory assessments. Efficacy measures included change from initial study baseline in Mania Rating Scale (MRS) and Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (CGI-S) scores, as well as MRS responder rates (&gt; or = 50% reduction from initial study baseline). The study was conducted from March 1998 to September 1999.
An ecological, retrospective time-series analysis and a meta-analysis of the suicide deaths in 3 Asian regions: Hong Kong (from 2001 to 2003), Taiwan, and South Korea (both from 2003 to 2005).
A total of 71 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (Mini-Mental State Examination score &gt; or = 21 and &lt; or = 26) were successfully randomly assigned to placebo (N = 38) or lithium treatment (N = 33) at 6 academic expert memory clinics. The 10-week treatment included a 6-week titration phase to reach the target serum level of lithium (0.5-0.8 mmol/L). The primary outcome measures were cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of phosphorylated tau (p-tau) and GSK-3 activity in lymphocytes. Secondary outcome measures were CSF concentration of total tau and beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta(1-42)), plasma levels of Abeta(1-42), Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS)-Cognitive summary scores, MMSE, and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). Patients were enrolled in the study from November 2004 to July 2005.
Healthy subjects with pre-existing recession were assigned to brush with either a PT (n=55) or an ADA reference MT (n=54) according to a prospective randomized, controlled, single-blind, parallel group design. Participants were asked to brush their teeth twice daily for two minutes each with the same fluoride toothpaste. Clinical attachment loss and probing pocket depths (PPDs) were measured at six sites per tooth to the nearest mm by one calibrated examiner at baseline and after six months. Gingival recession was calculated as the differences between clinical attachment loss and PPDs overall and separately at individual sites.
Forty human third molar teeth were randomly divided into four groups (n=10). The occlusal enamel was removed to obtain a flat surface of dentin. Each group was treated as follows: Group 1: 10% polyacrylic acid (positive control); Group 2: 37% phosphoric acid followed by 5% sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl); Group 3: 1.1% APF gel; and Group 4: no conditioning (negative control). Fuji II LC glass ionomer was bonded to dentin using a cylindrical mold. Samples were thermocycled and debonded using a shear force with a crosshead speed of 0.5 mm/min. Data were analyzed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey tests (a = 0.05).
Fifty enamel blocks were either roughened with 600-grit SiC paper or polished with diamond pastes. After establishing ten test groups (n=5), the initial Ra measurements, rough (R) and smooth (S) enamel surfaces were etched according to the following protocols: Group 1(R)/Group 2(S)- 35% phosphoric acid gel (H3PO4) for 15 seconds; Group 3(R)/Group 4(S)- 35% H3PO4 for 60 seconds; Group 5(R)/Group 6(S)- Clearfil SE Bond primer for 20 seconds; Group 7(R)/Group 8(S)- self-etching primer (SEP) for 60 seconds; Group 9(R)/Group 10(S)- 35% H3PO4 for 15 seconds + SEP for 20 seconds. After treatments, a new Ra measurement was performed and enamel surfaces were bonded with either Single Bond (Group 1 to Group 4) or Clearfil SE Bond (Group 5 to Group 10). Afterwards, specimens were prepared for the microtensile test. Ra values were analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) and the BS values were analyzed using a two-way ANOVA and Tukey test (5%). Correlation between BS and Ra values was assessed using the Pearson's test.
This study included 40 subjects with bilateral occlusal carious lesions on mandibular first permanent molars. The lesions were randomly assigned to receive one restoration after carious dentin removal with a polymer bur and the second after removal of carious dentin with a carbon steel round bur. Both procedures were completed by a single operator in one appointment. The efficacy of caries removal, time taken for caries removal, and patients' perception of the treatment were evaluated. The restorations were evaluated immediately and after six months using intraoral periapical radiographs (IOPA).
The study included 49 patients (28 women, 21 men) in need of implant treatment in the anterior teeth region of either the maxilla or mandible. Twenty-three subjects received 37 immediate (Im) implants and 26 subjects received 37 delayed (De) implants. The implants were placed immediately in the alveoli following the extraction in the Im group and the implants in the De group were placed approximately six months following the extractions. The width and depth of the marginal bone defects mesial and distal to the implants were evaluated radiographically using computer software designed to measure distances in digitized radiographs. The mean reduction of bone defect over time was 48% (from 3.4 to 1.3 mm) in the Im group which was statistically significant (P &lt;0.05) when tested using a sample t-test, while the mean reduction was 17% (from 2.1 to 1.9 mm) in the De group.
A total of 310 canals were evaluated in patients presenting for root canal therapy. Canals with intact apices were selected. After gaining straight line endodontic access, the coronal third was flared using Gates-Glidden drills. Working length was determined using an apex locator. ISO Standard K-files (tapered) were passively introduced into the canals starting with a No. 15 file. The first K-file size to bind against the canal walls without pushing and to reach the working length was recorded as the FKFB (First K File to Bind). Next, ISO Standard Lightspeed files (non-tapered instruments) starting with No. 20 were then gently introduced by hand to each canal in ascending order to the working length. The first size of a Lightspeed instrument to bind against the canal walls and reach the working length was recorded as FLSB (First Light Speed to Bind). In all instances a larger file was introduced to ensure it could not reach the same depth (i.e., working length). Statistical analysis was carried out using a univariate analysis of variance (ANOVA).
This cross-sectional case-control study was conducted on 90 children (45 PLBW and 45 NBW). The demographic data and information about feeding practices was ascertained using a structured questionnaire. Dental caries status (dmft) was determined, and the differences between the two groups were tested using the Fisher's exact and the Mann-Whitney U tests at a confidence level of 5%.
The present study was conducted on 80 asthmatic patients receiving treatment at the KMC Hospital, Mangalore, India. They were examined for their caries status, and the scores were compared with an age, sex, and socioeconomic status matched group of 80 non-asthmatic patients as controls. The mean age of asthmatics was 17.4 (+/-4.3) years and mean duration of asthma was 17.69 (+/-7.66) months.
Ninety non-syndromic orthodontic patients from a south Indian population, with either labial or palatal impactions of one or both maxillary canine teeth, were selected for the study group. A group of 250 patients who had normally erupted maxillary canines were selected as controls. Clinical findings and panoramic radiographs were used to identify dental anomalies.
A cross-sectional study consisting of 1,013 mothers of children between the ages four to 36 months who visited the immunization clinics at the Community Health Centres in Ife Central and Ife East Local Government Areas. Data was analyzed using STATA (Intercooled release 9) for Windows.
A review of the initiatives undertaken by the dental profession to adopt smoking cessation recommendations as standard of care is presented.
A 42-year-old female patient presented with an endodontically treated mandibular right first molar with extensive destruction of the coronal tooth structure. To conserve the remaining tooth structure a FRC resin core substructure was fabricated and veneered with Ceramage dentin and enamel hybrid composite to create the final restoration.
We examined the expression of PDCD4 in three HCC cell lines with different metastatic potentials, MHCC-97H (high metastatic potential), MHCC-97L (low metastatic potential) and Hep3B (no metastatic potential). A plasmid encoding PDCD4 gene was constructed and then transfected into HCC cells with the lowest PDCD4 expression level. Effects of PDCD4 on cell proliferation, cell apoptosis, gene expression of metastasis tumor antigen 1 (MTA1) and in vitro migration and invasion capacity were assessed after transfection.
mRNAs extracted from 35 pancreatic tubular adenocarcinoma tissues obtained by EUS-FNA before GEM-treatment were studied. mRNAs were amplified and applied to a Focused DNA Array, which was restricted to well-known genes, including GEM sensitivity-related genes, deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (hENT1), hENT2, dCMP deaminase, cytidine deaminase, 5'-nucleotidase, ribonucleotide reductase 1 (RRM1) and RRM2. mRNA levels were classified into high and low expression based on a cut-off value defined as the average expression of 35 samples. These 35 patients were divided into the following two groups. Patients with partial response and those with stable disease whose tumor markers decreased by 50% or more were classified as the effective group. The rest of patients were classified as the non-effective group. The relationship between GEM efficacy and mRNA expression was then examined by chi-squared test.
Retrospective survey regarding the views of a large sample of Iranian sued physicians by using a piloted anonymous questionnaire.
Prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial (Canadian Task Force classification I).
Eighty (n = 80) medical students, who had no experience with tying a laparoscopic intracorporeal knot, were randomly taught to do so by either reading a text with accompanying pictures (n = 40) or watching a short video with audio of comparable content (n = 40). The participants were allowed to review the material for as long as they needed to achieve understanding of the procedure. They were then asked to tie a laparoscopic square knot in a box trainer, with a limit time of 15 minutes. Time to review the educational material(s), time to tie the knot(s), numbers of attempts at the task (n), and numbers of those who expressed understanding of the task (n) were recorded.
Prospective analysis of patients with early-stage endometrial cancer who underwent robotic surgery.
Teaching hospital.
Eighty patients who underwent robotic surgery.
Between November 2006 and October 2008, 80 consecutive patients with an initial diagnosis of endometrial cancer consented to undergo robotic surgery at the European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.
In vitro comparative study (Canadian Task Force Classification II-1).
Teaching hospital.
Eight patients undergoing hysterectomy with benign indications.
Tissue blocks were divided, and 1g of tissue was vaporized using a monopolar and a bipolar vaporizing electrode.
Continuing, prospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-3).
University teaching, research hospital, and a tertiary care center.
We performed the SPA-LAVH in 24 patients from May 6, 2008, through October 8, 2008.
All cases of SPA-LAVH were performed by a single surgeon (T. J. K.).
Prospective randomized study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2).
University hospital.
Eighty patients with no more than 3 uterine myomas of maximal diameter of 7 cm.
Either LPS or MLPT myomectomy.
Retrospective review.
Thirty-nine patients with cesarean scar pregnancy.
Between January 2006 and June 2008, 39 patients with caesarean section scar pregnancy underwent hysteroscopic removal of conceptive tissues in our department. Their medical records were reviewed retrospectively.
Prospective observational study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2).
University hospital.
Two-hundred twelve patients with primary or secondary infertility.
All patients underwent transvaginal HyCoSy. If the tubes showed no evidence of patency after injection of air-saline solution, a solution with sulphur hexafluoride bubbles (SonoVue) was injected into the uterine cavity and tubes while contrast-tuned imaging (CnTI) was applied. Patients with tubal occlusion underwent laparoscopic chromoperturbation.
Prospective study (Canadian Task Force Classification II-1).
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Fatebenefratelli Isola Tiberina Hospital.
Twenty-five women with a previous history of open abdominal surgery (group A) and a group of 22 women with no previous history of surgery (group B) underwent dynamic ultrasound evaluation of the umbilical field.
Ultrasound Slide-By test.
A retrospective comparative study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2).
La Conception Hospital, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Marseille, France.
Thirty-one women who had a term pregnancy from January 1996 through December 2004 after hysteroscopic metroplasty for septate uterus (group A) were studied retrospectively. A control group (group B) of 62 women was selected from the same database who had term pregnancies and no history of hysteroscopic metroplasty.
Cross-sectional study (Canadian Task Force II-2).
University teaching hospital.
Two hundred fifty-seven of 1000 randomly selected women aged 45 to 50 years.
Transvaginal ultrasonography and saline infusion sonography were performed in all study participants and were repeated in women with endometrial polyps after 12 months. Polyps present at follow-up were removed by hysteroscopic polyp resection.
Retrospective cohort study (Canadian Task Force Classification II-3).
Fertility and pelvic surgery clinics.
One hundred sixty-eight women (age 21-53 years) with symptoms including pelvic pain, infertility, or both with 252 bowel endometriotic lesions underwent laparoscopic bowel resection performed by gynecologic surgeons between May 2000 and January 2008.
Laparoscopic procedures for excision of several endometriotic nodes and lesions included shaving resection (LscShR), discoid resection (LscDR), segmental resection (LscSgR), terminal ileal resection (LscIR), partial cecal resection (LscCR), and appendectomy (LscAp).
Prospective observational case series (Canadian Task Force Classification II-3).
University affiliated teaching hospital.
Premenopausal women on Warfarin therapy.
From January 2002 through January 2007, 10 women were identified from the senior author's clinical practice (G.A.V.). After clinical assessment, including Papanicolaou smear, endometrial biopsy, and pelvic sonography, the LNG-IUS was placed to treat their AUB.
Case series.
Five consecutive collegiate Division I wrestlers, with a mean age of 20.2 years (range, 18-22 years), were treated postsurgical stabilization to address posterior glenohumeral joint instability. All received physical therapy postoperatively, consisting of range-ofmotion, strengthening, and plyometrics exercises, neuromuscular re-education, and sport-specific training. Functional outcome scores using the Penn Shoulder Score questionnaire were recorded at postsurgical initial evaluation and discharge. Isometric shoulder strength, measured with a handheld dynamometer at discharge, was compared with measurements made during preseason screening.
Therapy, level 4. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2009;39(7):550-559, Epub 24 February 2009. doi:10.2519/jospt.2009.2952.
Therapy, level 5. J Orthop Sport Phys Ther 2009;39(7):496-505, Epub 24 February 2009. doi:10.2519/jospt.2009.2983.
Controlled laboratory study.
Bilateral knee MCL injuries were created in 51 rodents, while 7 rodents were maintained as ligament-intact, control animals. IACFM was commenced 1 week following injury and introduced 3 sessions per week for 1 minute per session. IACFM was introduced unilaterally (IACFM-treated), with the contralateral, injured MCL serving as an internal control (nontreated). Thirty-one injured animals received 9 ACFM treatments, while the remaining 20 injured animals received 30 treatments. Ligament biomechanical properties and morphology were assessed at either 4 or 12 weeks postinjury.
Resident's case problem.
A 32-year-old male presented to a medical aid station in Iraq with a history of 4 weeks of insidious onset and recent worsening of low back, left buttock, and posterior left thigh pain. He denied symptoms distal to the knee, paresthesias, saddle anesthesia, or bowel and bladder function changes. At the initial examination, the patient was neurologically intact throughout all lumbosacral levels with negative straight-leg raises. He also presented with severely limited lumbar flexion active range of motion, and reduction of symptoms occurred with repeated lumbar extension. At the follow-up visit, 10 days later, he reported a new, sudden onset of saddle anesthesia, constipation, and urinary hesitancy, with physical exam findings of right plantar flexion weakness, absent right ankle reflex, and decreased anal sphincter tone. No advanced medical imaging capabilities were available locally. Due to suspected CES, the patient was medically evacuated to a neurosurgeon and within 48 hours underwent an emergent L4-5 laminectomy/decompression. He returned to full military duty 18 weeks after surgery without back or lower extremity symptoms or neurological deficit.
Differential diagnosis, level 4. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2009;39(7):541-549, Epub 24 February 2009. doi: 10.2519/jospt.2009.2999.
Experimental laboratory study.
Surface electromyography was used to quantify the activity level of the gluteal muscles in 21 healthy, physically active subjects while performing 12 exercises. Repeated-measures analyses of variance were used to compare normalized mean signal amplitude levels, expressed as a percent of a maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), across exercises.
Randomized clinical trial.
Forty-one patients (21 females) were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups: the experimental group received Kinesio Taping to the cervical spine (applied with tension) and the placebo group received a sham Kinesio Taping application (applied without tension). Both neck pain (11-point numerical pain rating scale) and cervical range-of-motion data were collected at baseline, immediately after the Kinesio Tape application, and at a 24-hour follow-up by an assessor blinded to the treatment allocation of the patients. Mixed-model analyses of variance (ANOVAs) were used to examine the effects of the treatment on each outcome variable, with group as the between-subjects variable and time as the within-subjects variable. The primary analysis was the group-by-time interaction.
Therapy, level 1b. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2009;39(7):515-521, Epub 24 February 2009. doi:10.2519/jospt.2009.3072.
Experimental laboratory study supplemented by a case series.
Twenty female patients with midfoot arthritis participated in the study. Functional outcomes were assessed using the Foot Function Index-Revised (FFI-R). Plantar loading during walking was measured in the following conditions: shoe only, shoe with 3Q insert, and shoe with FL insert. Repeated-measures analyses of variance with post hoc analyses were used for statistical analysis.
Therapy, level 4. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2009;39(7):522-531. doi:10.2519/jospt.2009.2900.
This study involved an Internet survey of members of the American Pediatric Surgical Association (APSA), comparisons using chi(2) and paired t test analyses.
Anthropometric measurements and lung function tests were performed in 26 infants after surgical repair of CDH and 26 non-CDH intensive care patients, matched for gestational age and birth weight. Spontaneously breathing infants were tested at a mean of 44 weeks postconceptional age (range, 36-58 weeks). Body weight, body length, respiratory rate (RR), tidal volume (V(T)), functional residual capacity by body plethysmography (FRC(pleth)), respiratory compliance (C(rs)), and respiratory resistance (R(rs)) were measured.
We retrospectively analyzed the data on 3100 patients with CDH in the Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia Study Group from 82 participating pediatric surgical centers (1995-2004). Covariates considered included prenatal and perinatal clinical information, specifics of surgical repair, and the duration of extracorporeal support.
We reviewed all patients in our pediatric trauma database (1997-2007) for pneumomediastinum after blunt injury. Patients were then subdivided into 2 groups: group I, isolated thoracic and group II, thoracic and additional injuries. Procedures and imaging were recorded, and outcomes were assessed.
A retrospective review was conducted of all patients with/without symptomatic tracheoesophageal compression secondary to anomalies of the aortic arch and great vessels diagnosed from 1970 to 2008. A total of 183 patients underwent surgical repair. Median age at the time of the operation was 5 months (range, 3 days to 30 years). Patients were classified into 5 major subtypes based on their surgical anatomy as follows: right aortic arch-left ligamentum (n = 77), double aortic arch (n = 67), aberrant (retroesophageal) right subclavian artery (n = 30), pulmonary sling (n = 8), and innominate artery compression (n = 1). Six patients (3%) had an associated Kommerell diverticulum. In patients with a double aortic arch, 82% had a dominant right arch and 18% had a dominant left arch. Preoperatively, 80 patients (44%) had stridor, and 86 patients (47%) had recurrent upper respiratory tract infection.
Twenty-four adolescent and adult patients with asymmetric pectus excavatum (14-30 years of age) with no history of surgery were investigated in this study. The fifth and sixth ribs and costal cartilages were individually traced to measure their full lengths on 3-dimensional computed tomographic (CT) images. As an index of asymmetry, sternal rotation angle was measured in the chest CT images. Patients with a 21 degrees or greater angle of sternal twist were designated as an asymmetric group and those with an angle of smaller than 20 degrees as a symmetric group. Lateral differences in the fifth and sixth costal and costal cartilage lengths were compared between the groups.
We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 45 children who had surgery from 1979 to 2005 for EHPVO in our institution, consisting of 38 PSSS and 7 portal reperfusion procedures (PRPs). We assessed the presence of liver nodules on ultrasonography.
From 1979 to 2003, 57 children have been operated by the Kasai procedure. Only 40 of these have had their portal plate removed for histologic examination. We divided the patients according to clinical outcome into a successful and a failure group and compared the histologic features of the portal plates in the 2 groups. Afterward, the portal plate histology from EHBA was compared with the porta hepatis area from patients dead from other causes.
A retrospective analysis of all children treated for achalasia at a tertiary center from 1981 to 2007 was performed (n = 40). Demographics, presenting symptoms, perioperative parameters, and outcomes were analyzed using t tests and chi(2) statistics.
Records of 89 minor and 22 giant OC children were reviewed. A questionnaire on general health was sent to all patients. A second questionnaire concerning quality of life and functional status; Darthmouth COOP Functional Health Assessment Charts/WONCA (COOP/WONCA) was sent to all patients aged 18 years or older and a peer control group.
We conducted a retrospective review of patients with gastroschisis born from 1989 to 2007. Demographic and clinical data were collected. Preterm healthy neonates, with gestational age from 26 to 36 weeks, were used as controls.
The children underwent laparoscopic procedures under general anesthesia, and they were mechanically ventilated. Blood samples were obtained after induction of anesthesia, at the end of the surgery, and were centrifuged at 3000 revolutions per minute for 10 minutes to separate plasma. The plasma total antioxidant status (TAS), total oxidant status (TOS), and oxidative stress index (OSI) were determined.
Our vascular access team consists of a consultant surgeon and 2 consultant anesthetists. All procedures were prospectively recorded on a database and were either performed or directly supervised by our team.
We reviewed 721 consecutive vascular access patients who had vascular access surgery by a single surgeon during the previous 5 years. Ten patients 20 years or younger were included in this study. In addition to physical examination, each patient had preoperative vascular ultrasound mapping by the operating surgeon. A radiocephalic AVF (RC-AVF) at the wrist was the first choice for dialysis access when feasible; however, the patients in this report were generally seen after years of intravenous access and venipunctures that necessitated more proximal AVF constructions. A proximal radial artery AVF (PRA-AVF) was our most common choice for vascular access when an RC-AVF was not suitable.
From 1999 to 2003, 101 children with CA (76.5% of initial survivors) were seen 6-monthly in a tertiary children's hospital. Growth, neurologic outcome, mental and psychomotor development as determined with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development, and categorization of predictive sociodemographic and medical variables of the children were evaluated prospectively and longitudinally.
This study was conducted in children between 2 and 6 years old, divided into 2 groups of 10 pairs each. The experimental group received psychologic intervention, whereas the control group did not. One month after the surgery, they were reevaluated and compared with the same instruments used in the beginning of the study. The instruments used were as follows: the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory with the mothers and the Rutter's Child Behavior A2 Scale and the Posthospital Behavior Questionnaire with the children.
All consecutive patients treated for HLHS at our institution during 1969 to 2005 were retrospectively reviewed. The number of patients with histologically confirmed HD or clinical findings characteristic of HD such as constipation and delayed meconium were recorded from the patient records.
From 1998 to 2005, 97 children with HD underwent the modified Swenson's procedure in this institute. They were classified into 2 groups based on pathologic investigation as follows: group A contained 70 patients with HD and group B contained 27 patients with HD complicated with HYP. The mean follow-up time from the time of the operation was 3.4 years (range, 1.5-8 years). The incidence of postoperative EC and anorectal functions were evaluated and compared between these 2 groups.
Nine babies who were identified from 2 centers in the Republic of South Africa with fetal extraperitoneal rectal perforation are presented. The details of these babies were obtained retrospectively from the case notes.
We retrospectively analyzed 250 children after proctocolectomy with either SIAA or JPAA, for the first 3 years after pull-through. A functional stooling score was developed to further assess outcomes. Data were analyzed using chi(2) tests and generalized linear mixed models for repeated measures.
We prospectively randomized 134 children undergoing inguinal herniorrhaphy at our institution to have skin closure with either skin adhesive (n = 64) or subcuticular closure (n = 70). Data collected included age, sex, weight, type of operation, total operative time, and skin closure time. Digital photographs of healing incisions were taken at the 6-week postoperative visit. The operating surgeon assessed cosmetic outcome of incisions using a previously validated visual analog scale, as well as an ordinate scale. A blinded assessment of cosmetic outcome was then performed by an independent surgeon comparing these photographs to the visual analog scale. Operating room time and resource use (ie, costs) relative to the skin closure were assessed. Comparisons between groups were done using Student's t tests and chi(2) tests.
We conducted a structured review of the literature for cases explicitly identified as congenital fourth branchial arch anomalies or meeting anatomical criteria for this condition. We computed descriptive statistics and performed several post hoc 2-way comparisons of subgroups of cases.
Four cases operated for torsion of WS are retrospectively reviewed. Ages at presentation were, respectively, 30 months, 5 years, 4 years, and 3 years, without sex preference. All subjects led a history of abdominal pain and a mass on physical examination.
Twenty recently extracted molars were selected, and standard MOD inlay preparations were made with the gingival margins located below the cemento-enamel junction. The teeth were assigned to 4 experimental groups (n=5) according to the indirect composite restoration cementation technique used: (1) immediate dentin sealing with Adper Single Bond (TEBI); (2) conventional adhesive cementation technique using Adper Single Bond (TEAI); (3) immediate dentin sealing using Adper Prompt L-Pop (SEBI); or (4) conventional adhesive cementation technique using Adper Prompt L-Pop (SEAI). The restored teeth were thermal cycled 1,000 times between 5 degrees and 55 degrees C and then immersed in 50% ammoniacal silver nitrate. Three specimens per restoration were evaluated for microleakage, according to predefined scores, and submitted to Friedman's test (alpha=.05). The specimens were then sectioned to obtain 0.8 +/-0.2-mm-thick sticks (with n ranging from 32 to 57 specimens) and submitted to microtensile bond strength (muTBS) testing. The obtained data were submitted to 2-way ANOVA test (alpha=.05).
We did a prospective trial to assess the effectiveness of TMMR without adjuvant radiation in patients with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage IB, IIA, and selected IIB cervical cancer. We also generated MRI-based pelvic relapse landscapes from patients who had experienced pelvic failure after conventional radical hysterectomy.
59 genes were selected using an innovative data-mining strategy, and were profiled in the largest neuroblastoma patient series (n=579) to date using real-time quantitative PCR starting from only 20 ng of RNA. A multigene-expression signature was built using 30 training samples, tested on 313 test samples, and subsequently validated in a blind study on an independent set of 236 tumours.
Women aged 20-64 years who were undergoing routine screening as part of the English National Health Service Cervical Screening Programme in Greater Manchester were randomly assigned (between July, 2001, and September, 2003) in a ratio of 3:1 to either combined LBC and HPV testing in which the results were revealed and acted on, or to combined LBC and HPV testing where the HPV result was concealed from the patient and investigator. The primary outcome was the detection rate of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or worse (CIN3+) in the second screening round, analysed by intention to treat. This trial is registered with the International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number ISRCTN25417821.
The SOS study started in 1987 and involved 2010 obese patients (body-mass index [BMI] &gt;or=34 kg/m(2) in men, and &gt;or=38 kg/m(2) in women) who underwent bariatric surgery and 2037 contemporaneously matched obese controls, who received conventional treatment. While the main endpoint of SOS was overall mortality, the main outcome of this exploratory report was cancer incidence until Dec 31, 2005. Cancer follow-up rate was 99.9% and the median follow-up time was 10.9 years (range 0-18.1 years).
Breast milk and mothers' and infants' plasma phospholipid FA concentrations from birth to 44 weeks of gestational age were analysed and compared with mothers' food intake, assessed using a 3-day diary. Fatty acids were analysed by capillary gas-liquid chromatography.
Isolates collected from 75 and 89 children with uncomplicated malaria infection living in a rural and an urban area of Burkina Faso, respectively, were analysed by a nested PCR amplification of msp1 and msp2 genes to compare P. falciparum diversity.
A transversal prospective study was carried out during a period of 15 months in which 20 fractures of femur from 19 patients were included, corresponding to 10 imminent fractures (IF) and 10 established fractures. Assessed final outcomes were associated complications, walking type at discharge and change in Karnofsky's scale after surgery. Mortality and survival after operation were also registered.
Big endothelin-1 levels were measured in a cohort of 90 outpatients (age 64 (13), 70% males) diagnosed with HF. Patients were functionally classified (NYHA).
A follow up study of a cohort of patients was carried out. 265 B-CLL patients diagnosed in the Area Sanitaria de Gijón during 10 years (1997-2007) were analysed in this study. The overall survival of the patients was analysed by the Rai and Binet staging systems and the prognostic indexes proposed by the MDACC and GIMEMA group.
We conducted a retrospective study on all hospital discharged patients diagnosed with SBP in the period from January 2003 to December 2005, obtaining a total of 158 episodes. Two groups of patients were created: those over 65 (group 1: 73 episodes) and those aged 65 years (group 2: 86 episodes). A descriptive study, an analysis of survival by Kaplan Meier curves (compared with log-rank test) and a Cox regression analysis was conducted comparing the two groups.
We (a group of education researchers from Europe and North America) set out to examine the comprehensibility of a defined set of recently published medical education papers. We surveyed all the articles published in four major international journals on medical education during the first 5 months of 2008 and searched for terminology that might prove obscure or confusing to an international readership.
A pre-test, simulation-based training intervention and post-test design was used. Two objective structured assessments of technical skills (OSATS) and a bench-top simulation training session were administered at the Black Lion Hospital, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Participants included 19 surgical residents who volunteered as trainees. Five surgical faculty members and one senior resident from the Black Lion Hospital, as well as two faculty members from the University of Toronto, participated as trainers and evaluators. The intervention consisted of OSATS tests comprising four stations, covering knot tying, closure of skin laceration, elliptical excision and bowel anastomosis. Tests were separated by 2-hour practice sessions. Main outcome measures included previously validated instruments comprising global rating scales (GRS) and skill-specific checklists (SSC).
In 2007, a multi-institutional, cross-sectional survey was conducted at 37 hospitals. A total of 619 residents (409 men, 210 women) were recruited. Prevalence of mistreatment in six categories was evaluated: verbal abuse; physical abuse; academic abuse; sexual harassment; gender discrimination, and alcohol-associated harassment. In addition, alleged abusers, the emotional effects of abusive experiences, and reluctance to report the abuse to superiors were investigated. Male and female responses were statistically compared using chi-square analysis.
The purpose of this paper is to remedy that situation by providing an overview of mixed methods research, research design models relevant for medical education research, examples of each research design model in medical education research, and basic guidelines for medical education researchers interested in mixed methods research.
In Phase 1, 88 teaching team members from internal and emergency medicine were observed during clinical activities (216 hours), and 65 participants completed brief interviews. In Phase 2, 36 in-depth interviews were conducted using video vignettes. Data collection and analysis employed grounded theory methodology.
Year 4 medical students were randomised to either guided or experiential learning. Students in the guided group were taught using the conventional step-by-step technique. Students in the experiential group had to work out the correct technique for intubation on their own. Both groups had further opportunities to intubate manikins and patients during their postings. The students were recalled 3, 6, 9 and 12 months later, and their intubation skills assessed in four major categories: equipment preparation; intubation technique; successful intubation, and placement confirmation.
A pilot study with 10 students was conducted to show the feasibility of the methods and some evidence of modality-specific learning (the Harvey-trained group scored 72% correct on Harvey and 36% correct on CD test examples; the CD-trained group scored 60% correct on both CD and Harvey test examples). A main study was then initiated involving 37 Year 3 medical students from the University of Leeds. They received 1 hour of common instruction, after which one group received 3 hours of specific instruction on Harvey. The second group received 3 hours of instruction using a CD. Six weeks later, both groups were tested blind with real patients with stable heart sounds. Stations were observed by an examiner who scored communication skills and examination skills using 5-point scales.
A strategy for interprofessional team-working was developed in a large maternity unit in the UK, with a variety of interprofessional interventions spanning the attachment and opportunities to participate in specific task or research teams. These interventions were evaluated before the strategy proceeded to large-scale implementation, with a validated attitudes questionnaire (Pollard) and a reaction survey.
Participants were 133 undergraduate students from eight hospitals taking part in four clerkship rotations. All students recorded the time they spent on eight clerkship activities over 2 weeks and completed the Postgraduate Hospital Educational Environment Measure (PHEEM). Partial correlation analyses were undertaken to examine the relationship between the amount of time students spent on each activity and their PHEEM scores.
A total of 72 doctors and nurses participated in this 8-month study on a paediatric in-patient ward. Eighty hours of non-participant observations and 20 semi-structured interviews were conducted. All data were rendered anonymous prior to analysis. Using a constructivist grounded theory approach, one researcher read and analysed all data recursively. As emergent themes were identified, exemplary portions of the data were discussed with three additional researchers to resolve discrepancies and confirm the coding structure. Expertise literatures informed the final analyses.
During a paediatrics clerkship, trained lay observers (standardised observers [SOs]) assessed the communication skills of Year 3 medical students while the students interviewed patients. These observers accompanied students into examination rooms in an out-patient clinic and completed a 15-item communication skills checklist during the encounter. The reliability of the communication skills scores was calculated using generalisability analysis. Students rated the experience and the validity of the assessment. The communication skills scores recorded by the SOs in the clinic were correlated with communication skills scores on a paediatrics objective structured clinical examination (OSCE).
A total of 100 videotaped assessed consultations between SPs and Year 3 medical students were transcribed. Words by each participant were counted, and interruptions were coded and counted. Amount of talk and interruptions were chosen because they are potential markers of conversational dominance.
We drew upon the Dutch Inter-University Progress Test (PT) to measure impact on knowledge acquisition and compared PT scores of 393 CMC students with scores of 1028 ICMC students (Years 2-6) in a cross-sectional design. We also compared the scores of 112 CMC students with those of 197 ICMC students in Years 3-6 in a longitudinal design.
Biodegradable polymers PLGA and PCL are used in various ratios for nanoparticle preparation using the water-in-oil-in-water double emulsion technique for water-soluble DXY. The physicochemical characterization of nanoparticles included size and surface charge measurement, study of surface morphology using scanning-electron microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy study, differential scanning calorimetry analysis and in vitro release kinetics study.
Physical examination, laboratory investigations including hemoglobin levels and white blood cell counts, genetic testing, CT, bone-marrow biopsy, immunophenotyping by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, polymerase chain reaction analyses, fluorescence in situ hybridization, sputum culture and diagnostic splenectomy.
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma.
Outcome of patients suffering from a TBI has significantly improved with the rapid application of vital supporting measures in addition to a strict control of blood and intracranial pressure at the intensive care units. However no specific treatment for post-traumatic brain lesions has proven as efficacious in the clinical settings. A deeper knowledge of the physiopathological events associated with TBI is necessary for the development of new specific therapies. Due to the heterogeneity of the human TBI, each experimental model has been designed to reproduce a different type of brain lesion. Experimental TBI models allow the study of the dynamic evolution of brain injuries under controlled conditions. Usefulness of experimental models is limited by their reliability and reproducibility among different researchers. Small rodents have been the preferred animals to reproduce TBI injuries, mainly due to the similar cerebral physiology shared by these animals and the human beings.
Thirty albino Wistar rats were divided into 3 groups of 10 each: the sham-operated control group (group 1), the spinal cord trauma group (group 2), and the spinal cord trauma plus AK 295 treatment group (group 3). After having received a combination of ketamine 60 mg/kg and xylazine 9 mg/kg to induce anesthesia, the rats in groups 2 and 3 were subjected to thoracic trauma by the weight drop technique (40 g-cm). One hour after having been subjected to that trauma, the rats in groups 2 and 3 were treated with an intraperitoneal injection of either dimethyl sulfoxide 2 mg/kg or AK 295 2 mg/kg. The effects of the injury and the efficacy of AK 295 were determined by an assessment of the TUNEL technique and the results of examination with a light microscope. The neurologic performance of 5 rats from group 2 and 5 from group 3 was assessed by means of the inclined plane technique and the modified Tarlov's motor grading scale 1, 3, and 5 days after spinal cord trauma.
From June 1997 to May 2006 we implanted bioabsorbable fixation systems in 216 patients diagnosed with craniosynostosis. Age at treatment ranged between 4 and 24 months (mean age 6.38 months). Brain computed tomography (CT) scans, and three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction of CT scans were performed before and after treatment. An 82: 18 L-lactic acid: glycolic acid copolymer was used in 92.2% of these cases, and a 70:30 L-lactic acid: D-lactic acid copolymer was used in the remaining 7.8% of cases. The follow-up of the patients ranged between six months and five years.
While the conventional real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to measure the expression of ERRBs and ErbB4-processing protease genes, the LightCycler fluorescence resonance energy transfer probes were specifically designed to investigate all of the known ERBB4 juxtamembrane (JM) and cytoplasmic transcript variants.
A series of 146 diffuse gliomas, including 45 oligodendrogliomas, 42 oligoastrocytomas and 59 astrocytomas, were analysed by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography for 1p and 19q status and by immunohistochemistry for MGMT, p53 and Ki-67 expression patterns. The molecular alterations were then correlated with clinicopathological characteristics and with each other.
Expression of phosphorylated Cav-1 was determined by immunoblotting and dual labelling immunofluorescence for phosphorylated caveolin-1 and fibronectin, a marker of BBB breakdown. A phospho-specific monoclonal antibody that selectively recognizes only tyrosine 14-phosphorylated Cav-1 (PY14Cav-1) was used.
175 persons (students of economics, students at the university clinic for psychoanalysis, and prospective psychotherapists) were interviewed concerning terms of familiarity and popularity of the therapeutic methods. Using the semantic differential we tried to operationalize the resonant connotative associations.
We tested 49 depressive patients who participated in 9 PE group sessions at twice weekly intervals. Psychometric observer-rating and self-rating scales were conducted before and after PE completion.
A 41-year-old man presented with an insular hematoma without subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by rupture of a small aneurysm on a perforating artery of the proximal middle cerebral artery supplying the insula.
This rare aneurysm was resected via the transsylvian-insular approach.
A 67-year-old man in his usual state of health experienced an acute confusion episode preceded by a valsalva maneuver. The episode lasted approximately 60 minutes. Afterward he was able to remember everything that occurred. A magnetic resonance imaging scan suggested a right parietal dural arteriovenous fistula, which was confirmed by angiography. A seizure was ruled out by clinical examination and an electroencephalogram.
The patient underwent therapeutic embolization and surgical ligation of the fistula. Feeding vessels to the malformation were cauterized within the leaves of the falx, and the draining vein was clipped with a titanium aneurysm clip and divided. An intraoperative angiogram was then performed, which showed obliteration of the fistula. There was no demonstrable confusion or memory loss noted postoperatively.
The patient presented with a progressive left-sided weakness 62 years after initial surgery for a right parietal cerebral abscess, which included the instillation of Thorotrast into the abscess cavity. Computed tomography showed a right parietal tumor.
An explorative craniotomy showed an intrinsic, infiltrating, very vascular tumor with surrounding calcification. The tumor appeared to arise from a benign cavernous vasoformative lesion intimately associated with a Thorotrast-type granuloma. The patient declined further surgery or radiotherapy.
The 23-year-old patient presented with recurring headaches. She had right-sided hypoglossal nerve palsy for approximately 5 to 6 years. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an extracranial tumor with contact to the cranial base originating from the hypoglossal nerve.
The tumor was extirpated surgically and verified histologically as a schwannoma of the hypoglossal nerve.
A 5-year-old boy presented with diabetes insipidus and an enhancing lesion of the pituitary stalk without evidence of extracranial disease.
The lesion was biopsied via an endoscopic intraventricular approach without complications. Pathological examination revealed Langerhans cell histiocytosis.
A 43-year-old man presented with numbness and a burning pain in his left upper back and extremities. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a cervical-thoracic syrinx that terminated relatively abruptly at T4. Because of the abrupt termination of the syrinx at T4 and the slight ventral displacement of the spinal cord at this level, a dorsal arachnoid web was suspected.
A T4 laminectomy was performed. Intraoperative ultrasound before opening of the thecal sac showed a pulsating transverse dorsal arachnoid web. The dura was opened and the web resected, thus widely communicating the dorsal subarachnoid space. The syrinx dramatically decreased in size and the patient's pain improved but did not resolve completely.
We conducted a retrospective review with follow-up of 164 patients who underwent microsurgical resection of supratentorial CCMs. Clinical and radiographic data were collected and then analyzed to determine predictors of developing epilepsy and predictors of postoperative seizure control after microsurgical resection.
Between September 1997 and June 2008, a total of 656 meningiomas were operated on by the senior author (JH) at the Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital; 66 were olfactory meningiomas. We retrospectively analyze the clinical data, radiological findings, surgical treatment, histology, and outcome of all the olfactory groove meningioma patients and discuss the operative techniques used.
Between 1991 and 2007, 21 patients (19 women and 2 men; mean age, 51.1 +/- 10.6 years) harboring symptomatic CS meningiomas underwent transsphenoidal decompression. Sufficient bone removal, opening of the inferomedial wall of the CS, and tumor debulking were performed.
Fifty-five transsphenoidal surgeries were performed for macroadenomas (modified Hardy's Grade II-IV) resections. All of the surgical processes were guided by real-time updated contrast T1-weighted coronal and sagittal images, which were acquired with 0.15 Tesla PoleStar N20 iMRI (Medtronic Navigation, Louisville, CO). The definitive benefits as well as major drawbacks of low-field iMRI in transsphenoidal surgery were assessed with respect to intraoperative imaging, tumor resection control, comparison with early postoperative high-field magnetic resonance imaging, and follow-up outcomes.
Arachnoid tissue and CSF from the cisterna magna (CSFCM) was sampled at the time of primary tumor resection. Results were compared with conventional staging methods (M stage) and correlated with patient outcome.
From 1991 to 2007, 92 hemangioblastomas in 31 patients, 26 with von Hippel-Lindau disease, were treated with radiosurgery (27 tumors treated with frame-based linear accelerator radiosurgery, and 67 tumors were treated with CyberKnife radiosurgery). The mean patient age was 41 years (range, 18-81 years). The radiation dose to the tumor periphery averaged 23.4 Gy (range, 12-40 Gy). The mean tumor volume was 1.8 cm (range, 0.058-65.4 cm). Tumor response was evaluated in serial, contrast-enhanced, computed tomographic, and magnetic resonance imaging scans.
This is a retrospective review of a prospective, multicentered database of adults with spinal deformity. At the time of enrollment and follow-up, patients completed standardized questionnaires, including the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Scoliosis Research Society 22 questionnaire (SRS-22), and assessment of back pain using a numeric rating scale (NRS) score, with 0 and 10 corresponding to no and maximal pain, respectively. The initial plan for surgical or nonoperative treatment was made at the time of enrollment.
Nineteen consecutive patients with intracanalicular disc herniations of the upper lumbar levels underwent the oblique paraspinal approach, which utilizes an operating microscope, from March 2005 through January 2008. Their clinical and radiological data were collected and analyzed. The patients were assessed with standard examinations preoperatively and evaluated with dynamic lumbar x-rays, 3-dimensional computed tomographic scans, magnetic resonance imaging, standard pain and disability measurements, a visual analogue scale, the Oswestry disability index, and a patient satisfaction rate that checked their pain scores postoperatively.
This was a longitudinal prospective study of 50 patients with a diagnosis of lumbar spinal stenosis who were treated by microendoscopic decompression using an 18-mm METRx tubular retractor according to the METRx technique (Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Memphis, TN). Twenty of the patients had an additional disc prolapse, and a microendoscopic discectomy was associated with decompressive laminectomy. The results were evaluated using the visual analog scale pain score, Oswestry Disability Index score, patient satisfaction questionnaire, and modified Macnab classification.
Sixty-nine patients were treated with the X-Stop. Forty-six single-level and 23 double-level operations (92 devices) were performed according to recommended indications. The mean follow-up duration was 23 months.
High-resolution magnetic resonance angiography and fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition were performed preoperatively in 17 patients with neurovascular compression syndromes (facial spasm, n = 10; trigeminal neuralgia, n = 7) using a 3.0-T magnetic resonance imaging scanner. Computer graphics models were created with computer software and observed interactively for detection of offending vessels by rotation, enlargement, reduction, and retraction on a graphic workstation. Two-dimensional images were reviewed by 2 radiologists blinded to the clinical details, and 2 neurosurgeons predicted the offending vessel with the interactive visualization method before surgery. Predictions from the 2 imaging approaches were compared with surgical findings. The vessels identified during surgery were assumed to be the true offending vessels.
The authors reviewed 1642 cases of HFS. Assessments were based on clinical features, 3-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography, and surgical findings. Causes other than neurovascular compression at the root exit zone of the facial nerve were investigated and unusual clinical presentations were noted.
Somatic mutations were sought in DNA from 3 surgically excised, fresh-frozen CCM lesions by cloning and screening polymerase chain reaction products generated from KRIT1 or PDCD10 coding regions. Laser capture microdissection was used on isolated endothelial and nonendothelial cells to determine whether somatic mutations were found in endothelial cells.
A total of 37 carotid plaques underwent ex vivo VH-IVUS within 24 hours after endarterectomy. Ninety-five segments of virtual histological images were matched to histological sections. The area of the necrotic core on histological sections was compared with that on virtual histological images. Intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH) was histopathologically graded by its severity using immunohistochemical staining for glycophorin A as a marker. The relationship of the severity of the IPH to the necrotic core was histopathologically evaluated. The correlation between the necrotic core or IPH with symptomatology was also evaluated.
Immunohistochemical and Western blot analysis were performed in 70 cases of human gliomas and normal brain tissues. Survival analyses were performed using the Kaplan-Meier method.
The literature supporting the role of stretch damage as a primary cause of nerve root injury and pain was systematically reviewed. Pathoanatomic considerations between nerve roots and juxtaposed environment are described and correlated with the available literature. Potential anatomic relationships that may lead to stretch-induced injury are delineated.
De novo bifurcations were surgically created using both native common carotid arteries in each of 6 dogs. Bifurcations were imaged 2 weeks or 2 months after surgery by high-resolution 3-dimensional angiography, from which flow fields were obtained by computational fluid dynamics simulations. Subsequently, harvested tissues, demonstrating early aneurysmal changes near the apex, were immunostained for interleukin-1beta, endothelial and inducible nitric oxide synthases, nitrotyrosine, and matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -9. Spatial distributions of these molecules were comapped with computational fluid dynamics results.
Controlled cortical impact injury was performed in adult male Wistar rats. The rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: sham, saline control group, and simvastatin treatment group. Simvastatin was administered orally starting at day 1 after TBI until animals were killed at days 1, 3, 7, 14, and 35 after treatment. Functional outcome was measured using modified neurological severity scores. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunohistochemical staining were used to measure the expression of interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha and to identify activated microglial cells and astrocytes.
Adult female Wistar rats (n = 24) were injured with controlled cortical impact and divided into 3 groups. The first 2 groups were treated with simvastatin (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg) administered orally for 14 days starting 1 day after TBI. The third group (control) received phosphate-buffered saline orally for 14 days. Neurological functional outcome was measured with modified neurological severity scores performed 1 day before TBI; on days 1, 4, 7, 14 after TBI; and biweekly thereafter. All animals were sacrificed 3 months after TBI. Brain tissues of half of the animals were processed for preparation of paraffin-embedded sections for immunohistological studies. The remaining half were frozen for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay studies for quantification of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus and cortex.
Fischer-344 rats (Charles River Laboratories, Wilmington, MA) underwent a transabdominal approach for implantation of a CRL-1666 breast adenocarcinoma cell line within the L6 vertebral body. In experiment 1, 7 days after tumor implantation, animals underwent 1 of 2 treatments or no treatment (n = 8 per group): control (no treatment); surgery alone (L6 corpectomy); or surgery + OncoGel (L6 corpectomy with OncoGel implantation into the resection cavity). In experiment 2, 7 days after tumor implantation, animals underwent 1 of 2 treatments or no treatment (n = 8 per group): control (no treatment); surgery + XRT (L6 corpectomy followed by XRT [total 20 Gy]); or surgery + XRT + OncoGel (L6 corpectomy with OncoGel implantation followed by XRT). In experiment 3, 7 days after tumor implantation, animals underwent 1 of 2 treatments or no treatment (n = 8 per group): control (no treatment); XRT alone (total 20 Gy); or XRT + OncoGel. Daily hindlimb function was assessed using the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) scale (range, 1-21).
The PHQ-9 scale was completed by 103 participants with low vision. These data were then assessed for fit to the Rasch model.
A literature search was conducted that included the original report published in 1910 of the fitting of the patient. The dimensions and back vertex power of a blown scleral shell were measured.
Twenty presbyopic subjects were fitted with either the PureVision multifocal contact lens or monovision with PureVision single vision lenses. After a 1-month trial, the following assessments of visual function were made: (a) distance, intermediate, and near visual acuity (VA); (b) reading ability; (c) distance and near contrast sensitivity function (CSF); (d) near range of clear vision; (e) stereoacuity; and (f) subjective evaluation of near vision ability with a standardized questionnaire. Subjects were then refitted with the alternative correction and the procedure was repeated. All measurements were compared between the two corrections, whereas the "low addition" multifocal lens was also compared with the "high addition" alternative.
Ten subjects were recruited to wear galyfilcon A lenses (Acuvue Advance, Vistakon) followed by lotrafilcon B lenses (O2 Optix, CIBA Vision) each for four consecutive days. Each day, subjects inserted a new pair of lenses for 8 h of wear after which both lenses were removed using forceps (lenses were not rubbed or rinsed after removal). Lenses were pooled in one of four commercially available care solutions for a 24-h soak followed by precipitation, resuspension in water, and quantification by Bradford assay and identification by mass spectrometry.
Systematic observations were made at beaches, parks and outdoor public swimming pools in Honolulu, Hawaii on sunny days between November 2005 and June 2007. Observations were conducted independently by two trained observers between 10:00 am and 4:00 pm. During each observation period, each individual in the area was coded for gender, age category, clothing coverage, shade use, and use of sunglasses.
A total of 29 symptomatic CI subjects aged 45 to 68 years were examined. All subjects took the CI Symptom Survey V-15 (CISS) and scored &gt;or=16 points. Each subject was assigned two pairs of progressive addition glasses made by the same manufacturer in a randomized sequence, one with BI prism and one with the same lens prescription but no prism (placebo). Subjects wore each pair of glasses for 3 weeks and completed the CISS at the end of the 3rd week. Symptom level measured with CISS was the major outcome measure.
Eighteen 1-year-old cats were randomly fitted with an OK lens in one eye and an alignment fitted (AF) lens in the other eye. Both lenses were made in the same diameter and central thickness and of the same material. Two separate wearing periods of 2 weeks and 6 weeks were used. After each wearing period, lenses were soaked in Pseudomonas aeruginosa (6294 or 6206) for 10 min. The lenses were then reinserted onto their respective corneas for a wearing period of 16 hours after which lenses were collected and remaining adhered bacteria quantified. Unworn control lenses were also soaked and bacteria enumerated for comparison.
Sixteen control and sixteen dry eye subjects performed four visual tasks (looking straight ahead, watching a movie, identifying rapidly changing letters, and playing a computer game) while blink patterns and fluorescein images of the tear film were videotaped. Pre and posttesting symptom questionnaires, querying the intensity of nine symptoms of ocular irritation, were completed by all subjects. Blink rate and blink amplitude were computed from digitized videos. The percentage of tear film break-up before the blink was calculated.
Thirty eyes (15 subjects) entered a masked, randomized, cross-over study. Each eye was fitted with the spherical and toric lens of the following brands in random order: Acuvue Advance, Biomedics 55, Frequency 55, and SofLens 66. HOAs were measured using the Zywave II Aberrometer over a 6-mm aperture up to fifth order. A linear model accounting for the fixed effect of lens type and random effects of subject and eye was created. Paired t-tests were completed between lens brands within the spherical and toric lenses and between the spherical and toric lens within each brand. Best-corrected visual acuity (VA) was measured and compared.
Seven participants with normal color vision performed the panel tests at each of five viewing distances from 0.5 to 7.56 m (chromatic portions of the caps subtending 75 to 5 minarc). To obtain cutoff values for the numeric indices at the standard viewing distance under our viewing conditions, we also tested 69 unselected, volunteers with the Farnsworth D-15 and Lanthony desaturated D-15 panels. From each participant one eye, usually the worse, was included in analyses to find the 90th percentiles for each index, which we used as cutoff values. Many of the participants also made Rayleigh anomaloscope matches.
Tears were collected from 10 healthy subjects and 10 DES patients. Carnitine levels were assessed by high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Streptococcus sanguinis NCTC 10904 and Streptococcus ratti FA-1 were grown in suspension cultures and mono-organism biofilms. ADS activity at pH values of 4, 5 and 6 was assessed, and the actions of the agents was determined in terms of reduced production of alkali from arginine, inhibition of ADS enzymes and changes in uptake of arginine.
In this study, we investigated the gene SMU.1426c in the amino-sugar metabolism pathway of S. mutans UA159, which encodes phosphoglucosamine mutase (GlmM). The glmM gene that functions in the biosynthesis of peptidoglycan has been well investigated in Escherichia coli. Here a glmM mutant strain of S. mutans UA159 was constructed and several virulence properties were investigated.
Ten E. faecalis strains were isolated from root canals of teeth undergoing retreatment following unsuccessful endodontic therapy. Mitomycin C was used to induce any prophages present in the bacterial isolates. The induced phages were purified and examined using electron microscopy. The DNA extracted from one of the phage isolates was subjected to restriction endonuclease digestion and agarose electrophoresis analysis.
Human gingival cells (Ca9-22) were cultured in bacterial extracts prepared from A. actinomycetemcomitans ATCC 29522. The cells were pretreated with protease inhibitors or transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) specific for protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2).
HGF from healthy periodontal tissue were cultured and stimulated with lipopolysaccharides (LPS) from Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Porphyromonas gingivalis, and Escherichia coli. We also initiated apoptotic and necrotic cell deaths in HGF. The HMGB1 released in the supernatants from stimulated or dying cells was measured. Immunocytochemical staining against HMGB1 was performed in LPS-stimulated HGF.
Subgingival plaque and saliva samples, collected from 30 healthy pregnant women and 24 healthy non-pregnant women as their controls, were examined for the presence of pigmented gram-negative anaerobes. Altogether 2628 isolates were preliminarily identified as P. intermedia sensu lato, based on phenotypic testing. Their further identification was performed by using a 16S ribosomal DNA-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Adhesion and invasion were assayed by standard antibiotic/culture assays and fluorescent microscopy techniques. The effect of Prevotella strains on epithelial cell viability was measured using a commercial cell proliferation assay.
In this study, five forward primers and a reverse primer were designed for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) according to the partial sequences of the rpoB genes of these oral Veillonella species.
Excised tumor samples (65 OSCC patients) and exfoliated cells from potentially malignant lesions (from 44 and 119 patients with OL and OLP, respectively) as well as from healthy controls (72 individuals) were analysed. OLPs were classified based on clinical appearance, 61 patients had erosive-atrophic lesions (associated with higher malignancy risk, EA-OLP) and 58 had non-erosive non-atrophic lesions (with lower risk of becoming malignant, non-EA-OLP), respectively. Exfoliated cells collected from apparently healthy mucosa accompanied each lesion sample. HPV was detected by MY/GP polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and genotyped by restriction analysis of amplimers. Copy numbers in lesions were determined using real-time PCR. Prevalence rates, copy number distributions, and association with risk factors and diseases were analysed using chi-square test, t-test, and logistic regression, respectively.
Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus sobrinus, Streptococcus sanguinis, Streptococcus oralis, Lactobacillus paracasei, and Actinomyces naeslundii were used. Effects of physiological acidification at pH 4.0 on cell viability and growth ability, as well as the growth rate of these bacteria at pH 4.0-7.0, were investigated.
GECs were cultured from biopsies derived from three different healthy donors (n = 3). To obtain naturally formed biofilm (NFB), polymer disks were attached to prostheses and carried intraorally for 12, 24, 36, and 48 h. In addition, single-species biofilms (SSB; Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus mitis) were cultured on polymer disks in vitro (12, 24, 36, and 48 h). The messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of hBD-2, RNAase-7, PSO, IL-8, 5-LO, and glycerylaldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was analysed using semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
This study examines the effect of chronic hyperglycemia on BM-Mvarphi TLR expression and activation, cell signaling, cytokine production, and phagocytic function in the diabetic state, when challenged with the periodontal stimulus Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to further understand how diabetes and associated hyperglycemia may contribute to the increased susceptibility of people with diabetes to periodontitis.
Whole saliva was collected from 14 periodontitis patients, 15 gingivitis patients and 13 complete denture wearers. The study subjects were systemically healthy and had not received periodontal treatment in the past 3 months. Real-time TaqMan polymerase chain reaction was used to determine the salivary load of HCMV and EBV.
Subgingival plaque was collected from 41 patients with chronic periodontitis and 15 healthy subjects. The prevalence of Archaea in those plaque samples was tested by polymerase chain reaction with two broad-range archaeal primer sets. Amplicons from eight Archaea-positive plaque samples were cloned and sequenced for molecular diversity analysis using one of these two primer sets and a novel third primer set.
Endodontic specimens were aseptically obtained from seven patients with root canal infections. Protein mixtures were subjected to tryptic in-solution digestion and analysed by reverse-phase nano-LC-MS/MS followed by a database search.
Seven patients from the National Specialist Commissioning Group Centre for Alström Disease, Torbay, England, UK, completed the cardiac magnetic resonance imaging protocol to assess cardiac structure and function in Alström cardiomyopathy.
An in vitro bovine heart model was used to measure surface and tissue temperatures during RF delivery under conditions designed to cause steam pops. Sensitivity of type II MB (MBII) formation as a predictor of steam pops and for surface temperatures more than 80 degrees C was calculated.
Forty patients with tolerated VT post-MI were randomized to RF ablation with contact (group 1) or noncontact (group 2) mapping systems. In both groups ablation of tolerated VT was guided by VT activation map confirmed by concealed entrainment. When untolerated VTs were induced, ablation was performed in group 1 according to pace mapping starting from the scar border zone and in group 2 according to the VT activation map confirmed by pace mapping.
MI was induced in five sheep by percutaneous left anterior descending artery occlusion for 3 hours. Mapping was performed at 19 +/- 6 weeks post-MI. A total of 20 quadripolar transmural needles were deployed at thoracotomy in the LV within and surrounding scar. Bipolar pacing was performed from each needle to assess the effective refractory period (ERP) of the subendocardium and subepicardium. The activation (AT) and repolarization (RT) times, and modified activation recovery interval (ARI(m)) were determined from endocardial unipolar electrograms recorded in sinus rhythm simultaneously from all needles. Scarring was quantified histologically and compared with electrophysiological characteristics.
We report on three patients with recurrent unexplained syncope (despite extensive evaluation) who were labeled as having a psychogenic cause for their events. In each patient following placement of an implantable loop recorder, their syncopal events were found to be due to periods of prolonged asystole and/or complete heart block. One patient had prolonged asystole for 44 seconds. In each patient, episodes of syncope were eliminated following permanent pacemaker implantation.
This study consisted of AFL (group 1, N = 15) and non-AFL patients (group 2, N = 13). The CT structural characteristics were determined with intracardiac echocardiography. A 20-pole electrode catheter was located along the CT and pacing at progressively faster rates from either low anterolateral right atrium (LRA) or coronary sinus (CS) was applied.
We reviewed case records and device logs of 15 patients with ICDs or CRT-P or CRT-D devices who subsequently had implantation of a VentrAssist LVAD (Ventracor Ltd., Chatswood, Australia) as destination therapy or bridge to heart transplantation. Pacemaker and ICD lead parameters before and after LVAD implant were compared. In addition, ventricular tachyarrhythmia event logs and potential electromagnetic interference reports were evaluated.
Thirteen juvenile beagle dogs were fitted with a 4-Fr multipolar catheter placed transnasally into the esophagus to a level to sustain atrial capture. Pacing was established in nine dogs for 24 hours while four control dogs had catheters but no pacing stimulus applied. Paced dogs were divided into two groups: group A (n = 5) that were euthanized immediately and group B (n = 4) that were euthanized 7 days after the pacing period. Nonpaced dogs (group C, n = 4) were treated similar to group A. Gross and histological examination of the esophageal tissue was completed.
An infection was established in a rabbit model by creating bilateral subcutaneous implant pockets, into which a pacing device with or without AIGIS(RX) was placed. The incisions were closed, and a defined dose of bacteria was infused into each implant pocket. After 7 days, devices were explanted and sampled for viable bacteria by swabbing and sonication.
This large single-center retrospective study sought to assess the role of ILR in the evaluation of potentially arrhythmic symptoms, both in terms of diagnosis of an arrhythmia as well as to rule out an arrhythmic cause. Clinical data, indications for ILR, interrogation reports, and further management strategies were collected in all 86 patients who received ILR from June 1999 to April 2008 at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics. The indications for ILR were unexplained syncope (76%), palpitations (14%), and presyncope or dizziness (10%).
Consecutive patients with end-stage heart failure who underwent ICD implantation and LV reconstruction were evaluated. During admission, two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography (LV volumes and LVEF) was performed before surgery and was repeated at 3 months after surgery. Over a median follow-up of 18 months, the incidence of ICD therapy was evaluated.
In this paper, we report on a subject with Turner syndrome who also showed psychotic symptoms.
We investigated 102 participants with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM Disorders (SCID I and II) and the Symptom Check List (SCL-90).
A total of 5,356 elderly psychiatric inpatients (&gt; 65 years) with 7,658 episodes of inpatient care in a psychiatric university hospital between 1996 and 2006 was included in the study. Besides descriptive analyses, univariate analyses and binary logistic regression analyses were performed.
We conducted a database search in Pubmed and PsychINFO. Cost data were inflated to the year 2007.
Retrospective evaluation of all sexual offenders (n = 79) who were treated in the forensic psychiatric hospital Berlin between the 1.1.1998 and the 1.1.2005.
Treatment recommendations derived from established levels of evidence were examined regarding their possible bias.
24 unmedicated, female BPD patients as well as 24 healthy controls were matched for age, sex, and intelligence. Additionally, 22 female subjects with a life-time diagnosis of depression were included. All subjects completed a neuropsychological test battery assessing executive functions.
Data of all insurants (of DRV Braunschweig-Hannover) under 50 who drew a short-term benefit due to complete reduction in earning capacity in 2004 (n = 352) were collected with the help of an anonymous questionnaire (response rate = 54 %). This questionnaire compiled data on their general health status, their functional capacity and work ability, their motivation for returning to work as well as psychosocial aspects. At the same time, socio-demographic characteristics from the regional pension insurance database were analyzed.
Cross-sectional descriptive design study consisting of baseline data from participants enrolled in a randomized asthma communication educational intervention trial.
201 mothers of children with asthma (ages 6-12), recruited from community pediatric practices and emergency departments of 2 urban university hospitals.
Life events were measured using standardized items. Chronic stressors were measured using items from the International Asthma and Allergies in Childhood study and maternal and child exposure to violence. Depressive symptoms were assessed with the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression scale.
Secondary analysis of a national probability survey conducted by the CBS News/New York Times in January 2003.
Adult population in the United States, 18 years or older, having a telephone line at home.
The survey asked respondents a series of questions about demographics, pain characteristics, and utilization of pain treatment; logistic regression was used to identify variables predicting reported utilization of pain treatment.
An experimental study design was used. The experimental group received patient education through interactive multimedia about diabetes for 3 months, while the control group received a routine 3-month patient education.
On completion, 60 subjects from Taiwan were evaluated-30 in an experimental group and 30 in a control group.
Data were collected from both groups at baseline and at the completion of the patient education. The findings were then compared to evaluate the effects of the intervention on the subjects' knowledge of diabetes, blood sugar control, and self-care.
Cross-sectional study.
1,790 Nurses QuitNets registrants.
Demographics and smoking characteristics on the Nurses QuitNet intake questionnaire.
An evaluation of an educational intervention.
40 women with infants in the SCN unable to directly breastfeed.
Educational intervention instructing electric or pedal breast pump use and cleaning with a pre- and posttest evaluation.
Data are drawn from the general research literature and a case example of how a nurse in Los Angeles partnered with law enforcement to provide preventive health care to gang youth and youth at-risk for joining gangs.
A descriptive survey was used in this community-based participatory research study with low-income women.
MSCT-CA was performed in 43 patients (31 men, 12 women, mean age 58.8+/-7.7 years) with stable angina after a routine diagnostic workup involving stress ECG and conventional CA. The following inclusion criteria were adopted: sinus rhythm and ability to hold breath for 12 s. Beta-blockers were administered in patients with heart rate&gt;or=70 beats/minute. In order to identify or exclude patients with significant stenoses (&gt;or=50% lumen), we determined posttest likelihood ratios of stress test and MSCT-CA separately and of MSCT-CA performed after the stress test.
Twenty-six consecutive patients, 14 with liver metastases (ten from colorectal cancer; four from carcinoid tumours) and 12 with biliary cancers (ten Klatskin tumours; one gallbladder tumour; one intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma) with insufficient predicted future remnant liver (FRL) underwent right PVE to induce hypertrophy of the contralateral hemiliver prior to surgical resection. Total liver volume, tumour volume and FRL volume were calculated on a 3D workstation. The ratio of the FRL to the total functional liver volume was &lt;30% in all patients.
Ninety-eight patients with cerebral tumours, 46 of which were primary (seven grade 0-I, nine low-grade gliomas, two gliomatosis cerebri, nine lymphomas and 19 high-grade gliomas) and 52 secondary, underwent conventional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging completed with DWI and dynamic contrast susceptibility PWI. Both ADC and rrCBV were calculated on a workstation by using Functool 2 software. Student's t test was used to determine any statistically significant differences in the ADC and rrCBV values.
Forty patients referred for endovascular treatment of atherosclerotic disease of the carotid arteries (n=23), peripheral vessels (n=14) or aorta (n=3) on the basis of previous clinical and diagnostic examinations underwent high-resolution whole-body MRA at 1.5 T with 3D spoiled gradient recalled echo (GRE) sequences, featuring parallel imaging acquisition technique with x2 acceleration factor. Sixty-eight surface coil elements and a four-station imaging protocol were employed. Biphasic intravenous administration of a paramagnetic contrast agent [gadolinium benzyloxyproprionic-tetraacetic acid (Gd-BOPTA)] was performed with the following protocol: 10 ml at a speed of 1 ml/s followed by further 10 ml at a speed of 0.5 ml/s. For image analysis, the arterial system was divided into 42 segments for evaluation. The presence or absence of atherosclerotic lesions was evaluated by two observers in consensus; segments were classified as having clinically significant disease (&gt;or=50% stenosis or an aneurysmal dilatation) or no significant disease (&lt;50% stenosis). The presence of stenoocclusive disease, determined at all segments, was compared with findings on digital subtraction angiography (DSA), which were interpreted by a third independent reader. Sensitivity, specificity and concordance of whole-body MRA findings with DSA were calculated, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed for all vascular territories.
Two hundred and thirty asymptomatic subjects (age range 45-80 years) were enrolled in the study. CT colonography was performed with standard patient preparation (no faecal tagging) and a 4-detector-row CT scanner. Image analysis was carried out with primary 2D analysis and the use of 3D endoluminal views to solve difficult cases. Patients were referred for conventional colonoscopy in the following situations: detection of three or more suspected lesions with maximum diameter&lt;or=6 mm; evidence of one or more lesions with maximum diameter&gt;6 mm; presence of colonic masses (maximum diameter&gt;3 cm).
Cyclopus was tested on a set of 120 mammograms on which the two compared commercial systems had been previously tested. The set consisted of mammograms reported as negative, preceding 31 interval cancers reviewed as screening error or minimal sign, and of 89 verified negative controls randomly selected from the same screening database.
From November 2003 to May 2008, ten ablation treatments were performed in ten patients with acute pain from metastatic bone lesions. Patient selection and choice of the most appropriate ablation treatment was made based on lesion characteristics. Three patients were treated with radiofrequency, one with plasma-mediated radiofrequency, two with plasma-mediated radiofrequency and cementoplasty, three with radiofrequency and cementoplasty and one with microwave.
The study considered insurance claims filed by radiologists of the Italian Society of Medical Radiology (SIRM) over a 12.5-year period between 1 January 1993 and 30 June 2005. We isolated claims related to presumed diagnostic errors in mammography. We then estimated the number of claims arising from events in the study period that are expected to be filed over the next few years, before the expiration of the prescriptive period of 10 years.
A total of 467 patients underwent a PET/CT scan using an iodinated contrast medium. We compared images obtained by the single PET scan, the single CT scan and by the fusion of the two procedures (PET/CT). The final diagnosis was obtained by histological examination and/or by the follow-up of all patients, including those who did not undergo surgery or biopsy.
With the collaboration of our physics department, we measured exposure on ten patients undergoing vertebroplasty with combined CT and fluoroscopic guidance and on ten undergoing vertebroplasty with fluoroscopic guidance alone.
Sixty-nine adult patients undergoing elective hand surgery were studied. Blocks were performed using conventional nerve stimulation technique. Needle advance began at 2 mA (1 Hz, 0.1 millisecond). When motor response (MR) occurred at less than 0.5 mA, needle position was fixed for "group &lt;0.5 mA." For "group 0.5-0.64 mA," the needle was withdrawn until MR occurred at greater than 0.5 mA and disappeared at less than 0.5 mA. For "group &gt;0.65 mA," the needle was withdrawn until MR occurred at greater than 0.65 mA and disappeared at less than 0.65 mA. For each group, patients received 8 mL of ropivacaine 7.5 mg/mL on the 4 nerves (radial, median, ulnar, and musculocutaneous). Primary end point was the number of failed radial nerve sensory blocks at 30 mins.
An economic cost comparison was performed on Mayo Clinic patients (n = 100) undergoing traditional total knee or total hip arthroplasty using the TJRA Clinical Pathway. Study patients were matched 1:1 with historical controls undergoing similar procedures using traditional anesthetic (non-TJRA) techniques. Matching criteria included age, sex, surgeon, type of procedure, and American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status (PS) classification. Hospital-based direct costs were collected for each patient and analyzed in standardized inflation-adjusted constant dollars using cost-to-charge ratios, wage indexes, and physician services valued using Medicare reimbursement rates. The estimated mean direct hospital costs were compared between groups, and a subgroup analysis was performed based on ASA PS classification.
A retrospective chart review was conducted of all patients undergoing hepatic surgery who received epidural analgesia between June 1995 and September 2003 at our institution. Forty-nine surgical cases had an epidural catheter placed preoperatively. Data were collected included age, weight, American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status; preoperative partial thromboplastin time (PTT), international normalized ratio (INR), and platelet count (PLT); estimated blood loss (EBL); and volume of hepatic resection.
Anatomic study was performed on 3 cadavers. A 15-mL methylene blue solution was injected at the T10 level and then an additional 5-mL dye injection at L1 level. Fifty patients were included in the study. Patients in group 1 (n = 25) underwent PVB of 2 segments at the T10 and L1 vertebrae levels on the same side as the hernia, whereas patients in group 2 (n = 25) underwent PVB through 4 segments at T10, T11, T12, and L1 on the same side as the hernia. Perioperative propofol/remifentanil consumption, surgery start time, time to perform the block, duration of sensory block, postoperative visual analog scale scores, and complications were evaluated.
This multicenter study enrolled 144 patients, 18 years or older, with scheduled lower abdominal surgery under general anesthesia. Patients were randomly assigned to a single 15-mg dose of EREM; the same dose administered 15, 30, or 60 mins after epidural bupivacaine (20 mL 0.25%); or epidural placebo (normal saline) administered 15, 30, or 60 mins after bupivacaine. Postoperatively, fentanyl patient-controlled analgesia was offered for breakthrough pain. Multiple serum samples were analyzed for morphine and morphine metabolites. Safety and efficacy were assessed.
We anesthetized rats with sevoflurane, exposed the sciatic nerves, and injected 0.2 mL of 1% lidocaine or 0.1% bupivacaine, alone or coadministered with 0.625%, 1.25%, 2.5%, or 5% CaCl2 (n = 8-10 per group). We assessed the complete-block time and complete-recovery time of proprioception, motor function, and nocifensive reaction. To elucidate the mechanism of nerve block, we performed electrophysiology experiments in cultured rat GH3 cells. Sciatic nerves were harvested at day 7 and stained with hemotoxylin/eosin.
This is a prospective series of 10 patients who received cervical nerve root injections using ultrasound as the primary imaging tool, with fluoroscopic confirmation. Our radiologic target point was the posterior aspect of the intervertebral foramen just anterior to the superior articular process in the oblique view and at the midsagittal plane of the articular pillars in the anteroposterior (AP) view.
A randomized, side-by-side comparative evaluation of 7 different ultrasound machine models was performed. Sixteen resident physicians without prior ultrasound experience (inexperienced providers) completed a formal evaluation of each machine model after performing a standardized machine configuration and performance checklist. Inexperienced providers and 10 faculty members experienced in ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia evaluated the image quality of 2 standardized images acquired from each machine model.
Seventy patients scheduled for hand or forearm surgery were randomly assigned to receive coracoid IBPB using either ultrasound guidance (group U, n = 35), or nerve stimulation (group S, n = 35). Patients were assessed for sensory and motor block every 5 mins after injection of local anesthetic. Onset time, the primary end point, was defined as the time required for complete sensory and motor block. Time required to perform the block, success rate, and time to resolution of motor blockade were also recorded (secondary end points).
Two hundred thirty-two patients were randomized to receive an ultrasound-guided infraclavicular block or a transarterial axillary block for upper extremity surgery. Block placement, motor and sensory testing, and block adequacy data were recorded. The subjects were contacted by a blinded research assistant at 2 and 10 days postoperatively to assess for the presence of dysesthesias and pain and to assess patient satisfaction.
One hundred twenty patients were randomly allocated to receive an ultrasound-guided SCB (n = 40), ICB (n = 40), or AXB (n = 40). Performance time (defined as the sum of imaging and needling times) and the number of needle passes were recorded during the performance of the block. Subsequently, a blinded observer recorded the onset time, block-related pain scores, success rate (surgical anesthesia), and the incidence of complications. The main outcome variable was the total anesthesia-related time, defined as the sum of performance and onset times.
Two patients undergoing thoracic surgery procedures received preoperative midthoracic epidural catheters for postoperative analgesia. Following the 3-mL 1.5% lidocaine test dose, a unilateral Horner syndrome was observed. No other signs and symptoms of high epidural blockade were seen, and the Horner syndrome subsequently resolved. After epidurogram confirmation of proper catheter position and at the conclusion of surgery, the epidural was activated with an appropriate bolus and infusion dose without recurrence of the Horner syndrome.
Sprague-Dawley rats between 6 and 14 months old were used to analyse the capacity of the ovary to release 3H-NE recently incorporated under transmural depolarisation in relation to changes in the ovarian follicular population. Morphometric analysis of ovarian follicles and real time PCR for Bcl2 and Bax mRNA were used to assess follicular atresia.
Using differential display reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to compare day 5 and day 18 human glandular endometrium obtained by laser capture microdissection, we identified a specific gene, NUDT9 (nucleoside diphosphate-linked moiety X motif 9). NUDT9 is known to function as a highly specific adenosine diphosphate ribose pyrophosphatase and has been mapped to chromosome 4q22.1. It gives rise to two alternatively spliced messenger RNAs, NUDT9alpha and NUDT9beta, encoding a member of the Nudix hydrolase family. In this study, we purified NUDT9 protein and produced an antibody, which we then used for immunohistochemical studies.
Charts of patients treated between January 2001 and December 2003 at Changhua Christian Hospital were reviewed. Clinical parameters were compared with those from our previous study in the 1980s.
Two hundred normotensive women at 20-28 weeks' gestation were enrolled in the study. All women were asked to collect a 24-hour urine sample. Urinary protein and calcium were measured and expressed as milligrams per 24 hours. Sensitivity, specificity and predictive values were calculated for each test, and cutoff values were calculated using receiver operating characteristic curves.
From 2006 to 2007, we recruited 150 pregnant women who received routine GBS culture screening at 35 weeks' gestation with negative results, and who had repeat cultures and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for GBS after 39 weeks' gestation.
This randomized, double-blind study compared two laparotomy techniques. All hysterectomies were performed for benign conditions. Eighty cases were randomly assigned to receive either Pfannenstiel or Maylard incisions. Measured intraoperative variables included volume of blood loss and duration of surgery. Postoperative variables included abdominal distension, postoperative pain, and quality of life.
A double-blind clinical trial was designed to evaluate the effect of calcium supplement therapy on PMS symptoms. The study groups were selected from young female college students, based on PMS criteria. The subjects were divided in two groups; one group received placebo and the other received 500 mg of calcium carbonate twice daily for 3 months. The severity and intensity of symptoms, including early fatigability, changes in appetite, and depression, were evaluated using a standard questionnaire. Symptoms were compared before and after treatment.
Identification of sites vulnerable to mutation is a new trend aimed at extending our knowledge of diseases at the genomic and proteomic levels. In this study, bioinformatics analysis was performed to determine the positions corresponding to specific peptide motifs in the amino acid sequence of the ER. A new computational tool called GlobPlot was used to identify the weak linkage positions within the ER.
The participants included 43 women with symptomatic myomas who wished to retain their uteri. All the women were older than 45 years old, agreed to use the GnRH agonist for menopause induction, and were without any underlying malignancy. They were treated with six courses of GnRH agonist between 2004 and 2005. The definition of re-intervention included: (1) surgical intervention, such as hysterectomy, myomectomy or laparoscopic uterine vessel occlusion, or (2) modification of GnRH agonist use. Modification of GnRH agonist use included either failure to complete a 6-month GnRH agonist treatment course, or re-use of GnRH agonist with/without interruption of continuity. Failure was defined as women who underwent surgical intervention or failed to complete the 6-month GnRH agonist treatment. Evaluations were performed every 6 months, for up to 2 years.
In this study, new gene ontology technology was used to predict changes in the molecular function and biologic processes caused by the interaction between IRF-1 and HPV E7.
In this pilot study, 60 infertile PCOS patients were enrolled in a randomized clinical trial and divided into three equal groups. Group 1 received 1,000 mg of calcium and 400 IU of vitamin D per day, orally. Group 2 received the same as Group 1, plus 1,500 mg/day of metformin. Group 3 received 1,500 mg/day of metformin. The patients were treated for 3 months and followed up for a further 3 months. Regularity of menses, number of large follicles (&gt; or = 14 mm) and pregnancy rates were compared among the three groups.
This prospective, randomized trial was carried out in the IVF center of China Medical University Hospital in Taiwan, from February 1, 2004 to January 30, 2005. A total of 44 patients were enrolled in the study. Of these, 30 were allocated to acupuncture, and 14 were allocated to no acupuncture. EA was performed four times, twice a week for 2 weeks, from day 2 of the study to the day before oocyte retrieval. After patients felt the needle reaction, the needles were attached to an electrical stimulator for 30 minutes. Clinical pregnancy and pulsatility index (PI) of right and left uterine arteries before and after EA were measured.
Chromosomal karyotyping was performed on samples of chorionic villi, amniotic fluid cells, amniotic membrane, umbilical cord, fetal skin, and placenta from a fetus with elevated nuchal translucency. Polymorphic short tandem repeat markers and Affymetrix single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) mapping chips were used for molecular analyses.
A 32-year-old, gravida 6, woman was a carrier of a balanced translocation 45,XX,der(2),t(2,22), and had a poor obstetric history. Chorionic villus sampling was performed, and the results revealed the fetus to be a balanced translocation carrier, like the mother. Microcephaly was detected during the third trimester and amniocentesis was performed. The results showed a 45,XX,der(2)t(2;22)(q37,q11.2)mat,-22 karyotype. After counseling, the mother elected to undergo pregnancy termination. Feticide was performed before labor induction. However, she experienced discomfort when a minimal amount of potassium chloride (3 mEq) was injected into the fetal heart, without inducing fetal asystole. We, therefore, induced cardiac tamponade using 10 mL of normal saline instilled into the fetal pericardial space. Fetal asystole was noted. The whole procedure was performed without incident, and termination was achieved by hysterotomy after informed consent was given.
A 26-year-old primigravida at 14 weeks' gestation was presented to our outpatient department with a complaint of dysuria. Routine antenatal ultrasound revealed disruption of the fetal upper thoracic vertebral column curvature, together with hemivertebrae. Further high-resolution two-dimensional ultrasound examination revealed dilatation of the thoracolumbar vertebrae and extra echogenic foci in the spinal canal. Thoracolumbar meningocele was also observed. These observations (thoracic hemivertebrae, scoliosis and thoracolumbar meningocele) suggested a diagnosis of type I diastematomyelia. The family was counseled regarding the prognosis for the fetus. Their decision to terminate the pregnancy was considered and approved by the ethical council. The postabortion pathologic examination, along with X-ray, three-dimensional computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging examinations, supported the initial diagnosis.
A 20-year-old, primigravida with bilateral malignant ovarian tumors, who received no prior antenatal care, was presented with intestinal obstruction at 5 months' gestation. Pregnancy was preserved, and bilateral oophorectomy, omentectomy with resection of sigmoid colon growth, and colostomy were performed. The patient aborted spontaneously and postoperatively, and was treated with adjuvant chemotherapy.
Clinical data for five patients with primary malignant melanoma are presented. Diagnosis was based on histologic and immunohistochemical examinations. Case 1 was a 58-year-old woman with mucosal lentiginous melanoma of the vulva. The other four patients, all of whom were over 40 years old, had vaginal melanomas. They were all treated with surgery, and three also received postoperative adjuvant therapy with interferon alpha-2b. Despite this, three of the patients died owing to widespread disease.
Histologic examination revealed the mass to be an Antoni A-dominated tumor that was S-100-positive, CD117-negative, and smooth muscle actin-negative. The patient underwent a total hysterectomy and removal of the tumor, and had no evidence of recurrence at 2 years' follow-up.
Randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled, single-center, phase-II clinical trial. One hundred and ten chronically HIV-1-infected patients, older than 18 years and naïve for antiretroviral therapy (i.e., without prior or current management with antiretroviral drugs) will be enrolled at the outpatient services from the most important centres for health insurance care in Medellin-Colombia. The interventions will be lovastatin (40 mg/day, orally, for 12 months; 55 patients) or placebo (55 patients). Our primary aim will be to determine the effect of lovastatin on viral replication. The secondary aim will be to determine the effect of lovastatin on CD4+ T-cell count in peripheral blood. As tertiary aims we will explore differences in CD8+ T-cell count, expression of activation markers (CD38 and HLA-DR) on CD4 and CD8 T cells, cholesterol metabolism, LFA-1/ICAM-1 function, Rho GTPases function and clinical evolution between treated and not treated HIV-1-infected individuals.
The EVOLVO study is a prospective, randomized, parallel, unblinded, multicenter clinical trial designed to compare remote ICD management with the current standard of care, in order to assess its ability to treat and triage patients more effectively. Two-hundred patients implanted with wireless-transmission-enabled ICD will be enrolled and randomized to receive either the Medtronic CareLink monitor for remote transmission or the conventional method of in-person evaluations. The purpose of this manuscript is to describe the design of the trial. The results, which are to be presented separately, will characterize healthcare utilizations as a result of ICD follow-up by means of remote monitoring instead of conventional in-person evaluations.
From September 1999 to February 2006, men undergoing radical prostatectomy (RP) by one surgeon were given the UCLA Prostate Cancer Index to complete preop, and then annually thereafter to 2 years. We have 285 men who have completed the pre-op and year 1 and /or year 2 surveys. Continence was defined as requiring "no pads" on the survey. Analysis was based on attempted nerve sparing status of the surgery; none, unilateral, or bilateral. Subgroup analysis was then performed on successful nerve sparing surgery, defined as men responding they have an erection "firm enough for intercourse."
A review of English-language literature from 1990 to the present was performed utilizing the U.S. National Library of Medicine's Pub Med database. Keywords used were urothelial cell carcinoma, prostatic urethral involvement, prostatic duct/acini involvement, carcinoma in situ. Bibliographies of reviewed articles were also searched.
We studied 11 patients who underwent radical nephrectomy due to RCCC; from each patient we obtained a sample from the cancer tissue, and another from normal renal tissue. These biopsies were mechanically disaggregated to allow individual cells analysis. Cells were incubated with daunorubicin (a fluorescent drug extruded by P-gp) at 37 degrees C and 4 degrees C for 30 min. P-gp activity was analyzed using flow cytometry. Results were expressed as the percentage of cells with P-gp activity (i.e., low fluorescence).
Patients with prostate cancer (n = 287) and other urogenital cancer (n = 126) were tested with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) at the following time points: at the beginning (T1) and the end (T2) of the treatment in the hospital, 6 months later (T3), and 1 year later (T4).
The in vitro activities of sunitinib and cisplatin alone and in combination were determined against human urothelial carcinoma cell lines, TCC-SUP and 5637. Antitumor activities were also determined in vivo against murine subcutaneous 5637 xenografts. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to detect VEGFR2 and Kit, and modulation of proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis.
Gene expression was analyzed by a real-time quantitative PCR method in paired samples from 14 bladder cancer patients treated with a combination of neoadjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin. The prognostic significance of XAF1 and XIAP mRNA expression as well as the correlation with several clinical and pathological findings were evaluated.
We analyzed genomic DNA samples of 488 prostate cancer cases undergoing brachytherapy at Hannover Medical School, and of 462 male controls from the same location. Genotyping was performed using 5'-exonuclease allelic discrimination assays, and results were evaluated with chi(2) tests and logistic regression analyses.
Thirty-seven patients subjected to radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer were divided into 2 groups for the analyses: Low (&lt; or =6-18) and high (&gt; or =7-19) Gleason score and tumor behavior; recurrence 15 and nonrecurrence 22, mean follow-up 52.6 months.
Cross-sectional study.
Children aged 6-59 months who were admitted to Vaiola Hospital, Nuku'alofa, Tonga, and had blood collected for clinical investigation, were tested for HBsAg with a rapid serological test (Abbott Determine). A total of 449 children were recruited and interviewed and 375 (84%) were tested for HBsAg. Convenience testing was chosen, as it was likely to be a relatively unbiased method in this situation where all children on the island have good and equitable access to hospital services. Immunization status was checked against the children's immunization cards and cross-checked against the records kept by the public health nurses. Information about socio-economic status, parent education, blood transfusion, breast-feeding, mode of delivery, and place of birth was collected through interviews with mothers using a standardized questionnaire.
Case series.
Warmblood horses (n=23) and 2 ponies.
Medical records (1999-2008) of equids with pelvic or coxofemoral disorders that had pelvic radiography and ultrasonography were retrieved and results of both techniques compared.
Case series.
Horses (n=5) with ventral median abdominal incisional hernia.
A telescope and 2 instrument portals were established bilaterally, lateral to and distant from the hernia margins. After exposure of the internal rectus sheath by removal of retroperitoneal fat with endoscopic scissors and monopolar cautery, a prosthetic mesh was introduced into the abdomen and secured intraperitoneally using transfascial sutures with or without supplemental endoscopic hernia fixation devices.
Case series.
Cats (n=21) with ilial fractures.
Medical records (June 1994 to February 2004) and radiographs were reviewed. Retrieved data were: signalment, fracture description, screw purchase, screw loosening, complications, and clinical outcome. Sacral index (SI) was used to objectively assess degree of pelvic canal narrowing. Long-term follow-up was by owner telephone interview or postal questionnaire.
Prospective study.
Cats (n=10) with iliac fractures.
Cats with ilial fractures (January 2005-December 2006) were treated by application of a dorsally applied bone plate. Immediate postoperative radiographs were compared with those taken 4-6 weeks later to assess screw loosening, screw purchase, and pelvic canal narrowing. Owners were contacted for medium-term (&gt;3 month) follow-up. Data were compared with a report of outcome after lateral plating (LP) in 21 cats.
Anatomic study.
Frozen cadaveric feline sacra.
Feline sacra (n=20) were used to perform a radiographic study to define a safe corridor to a depth of 66% of the sacral body width. Two drill start points (A and B) were evaluated. Dorsal exit from the safe corridor was considered unacceptable.
Case series.
Cats (3) and dogs (2) with ear canal separation.
Medical records (1998-2007) of dogs and cats with ear canal separation were reviewed. Long-term outcome was obtained by telephone interview of owners or referring veterinarians.
Case series.
TPLO (n=168) on 142 dogs.
Medical records (January 2006-September 2007) and radiographs of all dogs that had TPLO were reviewed. Data retrieved were breed, sex, age, weight, type of plate, use of a jig, time to recheck, preoperative tibial plateau angle (TPA), immediate postoperative TPA, and presence or absence of fibular fracture.
Clinical report.
Dogs (n=6) idiopathic chylothorax.
Ultrasonography was used to guide percutaneous injection of intestinal lymph nodes with nonionic iodinated contrast medium for preoperative CT lymphography of the thoracic duct in 6 dogs with chylothorax. Thoracic CT images were acquired immediately after contrast medium injection. All dogs had subtotal pericardectomy and thoracic duct ligation. Postoperative thoracic duct lymphography was performed in 3 dogs. Superficial cervical lymph node lymphography was performed in 2 dogs to determine cervical lymphatic contribution to thoracic effusions.
Case series.
Horses (n=233) aged &gt; or =1 year that had exploratory celiotomy for small intestinal disease that recovered from surgery from 1995 to 2005.
Sixty-eight variables were collected from medical records (1995-2005) for each horse. POI was defined as nasogastric reflux volume &gt;20 L over 24 hours or &gt;8 L at any single time after surgery.
Experimental ex vivo study.
Cadaveric equine thoracic limb pairs (n=10).
Insertion of a 4.5 mm cortex screw in lag fashion into an intact distal phalanx was evaluated in 2 groups (n=10) of cadaveric equine thoracic limbs. In 1 group, the site, direction, and length of the implant were determined by radiography, and in the other group, by CT. Accuracy of screw placement was verified by specimen dissection. Outcomes were (1) absence of penetration of the articular surface, the solar surface, or the semilunar canal (2) appropriate length and direction of the screw. Surgical time was also measured.
Case series.
Dogs (n=24) with ST.
Medical records (1995-2006) of dogs with ST that had surgical treatment were reviewed. Results of clinical examination, diagnostic imaging, surgery, histopathology of resected tendon tissue, and outcome were compared between dogs with mineralized and nonmineralized ST.
Experimental study.
Adult female Beagle dogs (n=12).
Non-simultaneous and bilateral transverse mid-diaphyseal osteotomies performed in tibiae were stabilized and distracted by a Type Ia external skeletal fixation device. After a latency period of 5 days, distraction was applied at a rate of 0.5 mm every 12 hours for 10 days. Then, the external fixator was maintained in a static mode during the consolidation period until bone healing or euthanasia at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 18 weeks after operations, whichever came first. Distracted regions were isolated and their structure was examined by BS-SEM.
Retrospective cohort study.
OFA radiographic classifications (n=431,483) on dogs whelped between 1989 and 2003.
Numbers and percentages of dogs classified by hip joint phenotypes were determined for 2-year cohorts. Differences between breeds and sexes were assessed using the Fisher's exact test, and odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated to express associations. The Cochran-Armitage test for trend was calculated to identify significant trends over time.
Experimental study.
Healthy female goats (n=9); aged, 10-18 months; weighing, 22-30 kg.
Food was withheld for 24 hours and water for 10 hours. Anesthetized right laterally recumbent goats had a laparoscopic portal and 3 instrumental portals created in the left flank. Splenic attachments were dissected with monopolar electrocautery and blunt dissection through 2 instrument portals. Exposure and isolation of splenic vessels was performed with laparoscopic "right-angle" preparation forceps. Vessels were ligated with a medium-titanium clip and 2 silk sutures and then transected between the silk sutures. The detached spleen was manipulated into a specimen retrieval bag, morcellated, and the bag retrieved through an enlarged portal. Repeat laparoscopic examination was performed at 1 month.
Case series.
Dogs (n=9) and cats (6).
Medical records (January 2004-January 2008) of dogs and cats that had tube cystostomy via an inguinal approach were reviewed. Retrieved data included signalment, diagnosis, surgical technique, and complications. Access to the bladder was through a muscle splitting approach in the inguinal region with the cystostomy tube placed through a skin incision made several centimeters proximal to this incision and secured in the bladder by a purse string suture. Cystopexy during closure of the muscle layers ensured secure closure and minimized the likelihood of uroabdomen if tube dislodgment occurred.
Clinical case report.
An 11-year-old, female neutered, Labrador Retriever.
The dog was referred for clinical signs of bowel obstruction. An enterectomy was performed 2 years before presentation using a CEEA stapling device. Palpation, plain radiographs, and ultrasound of the abdomen confirmed the presence of a mass in the bowel, causing obstruction, and requiring surgical approach.
Clinical case report.
Five-year-old female alpaca.
Grade IV/IV lateral, left patella luxation and mild femoropatellar joint effusion was identified by palpation and visual assessment, and confirmed by ultrasonography and radiographs. Trochlear block recession combined with lateral retinacular release and medial imbrication to restore patella function.
Preclinical research study.
Skeletally mature, male Hounds (25-30 kg; n=24) with no preexisting joint pathology.
Dogs had unilateral cemented TKR and were evaluated at 6, 12, 26, or 52 weeks (6 dogs/time point) by radiography, bone density analysis, visual gait assessment, and direct measurement of thigh circumference and stifle joint range of motion as indicators of functional recovery. At study end, the stability of the cemented tibial component was determined by destructive mechanical testing.
Prospective clinical case study.
Dogs (n=6) with severe stifle OA.
Preoperative and postoperative evaluations were compared after 6 dogs had TKR. Data gathered included radiographs, goniometric measures of passive range of motion, ground reaction forces, and girth measurements of the thigh before surgery and at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year.
Case report.
An 18-month-old, 47 kg alpaca male.
Cementless THR was performed in an alpaca with a chronic, right SCFE, and secondary osteoarthritis. Force plate gait analysis was performed before and 8 weeks after surgery. Outcome was determined through clinical evaluation, radiography, and force plate gait analysis.
Prospective study.
Cadaveric canine stifles (n=10); Client-owned dogs (15).
In cadaveric stifles, the femoropatellar space was assessed before placement of a joint distractor and examination of the femorotibial joint. Time to complete evaluation of the femoropatellar space, to observe the cruciate ligaments, and to completion of examination of the femorotibial joint were recorded. Distractor-assisted arthroscopy was then performed in 15 consecutive clinical cases. Clinical information, time to complete joint evaluation, and ability to perform any additional arthroscopic surgery were recorded.
Case series.
Dogs &gt;or=20 kg with suspected cranial cruciate ligament (CrCL) deficiency.
A custom designed linear side bar was constructed to allow invasive pin distraction of the stifle joint. Its design efficacy for distraction of the medial joint compartment, observation and probing of the medial meniscus, and value during meniscal surgery was evaluated by clinical use.
Descriptive study.
Cadaveric equine skulls (n=11); 8 horses with a history of quidding or headshaking.
Tangential radiographic projections were taken of a TMJ of a cadaveric skull before and after intra-articular injection of radiographic contrast. Additional tangential radiographic projections were taken after TMJ dissection and placement of a wire along the articular surface of the mandibular condyle. Subsequently, 3 tangential radiographs were taken of both TMJs of 10 skulls at 75 degrees , 70 degrees , and 65 degrees to the dorsal plane (Rt/Le15Cd70D-Le/RtRVO). Each of the 3 images for each TMJ was ranked by 4 observers who were unaware of the projection angle. Interobserver variation was calculated using a Friedman analysis of variance and significance of the most prevalent angle with a 1-sample repeated measures test. Tangential radiographic projections of both TMJs were then taken of 8 standing sedated horses.
Descriptive study
Cadaveric equine heads (n=40)
The VCS and RMS were examined endoscopically using: (1) rostral trephination of the RMS (rostral RMS approach); (2) caudal trephination of the RMS (caudal RMS approach); (3) conchofrontal sinus (CFS) trephination followed by RMS trephination at a site identified by endoscopic transillumination of the maxillary bone at the most rostral aspect of the caudal maxillary sinus (CMS) (light-indicated RMS approach); (4) CFS trephination with fenestration of the ventral conchal bulla (VCB; frontal VCB approach); (5) CMS trephination with VCB fenestration (caudal VCB approach); and (6) CFS and CMS trephination with VCB fenestration (combined VCB approach).
Case series
Horses (n=60) with suspected paranasal sinus disease.
Horses were evaluated by sinoscopy through a conchofrontal sinus (CFS) portal with ventral conchal bulla (VCB) fenestration. Other endoscopic sinus approaches and adjunctive diagnostic tests; oral examination, computed tomography, radiography, scintigraphy and endoscopic examination of the upper portion of the respiratory tract were used in some horses.
Clinical report.
A 2-year-old Warmblood stallion.
A metallic foreign body was removed from a talocrural joint using a 10-mm magnetic retriever under arthroscopic guidance. Preoperative radiographs were used to locate the intra-articular position of the foreign body.
Case series.
Foals (n=40) aged 5-180 days.
Clinical signs, laboratory data, diagnostic imaging, surgical findings, surgical procedures, medical treatment, and necropsy findings were retrieved from medical records. Outcome was obtained by reviewing performance, sales, and produce records or by telephone conversations with the owners.
Clinical report.
Cat with DCRV.
DCRV was diagnosed in a 5-month-old male Maine Coon cat using echocardiography and angiocardiography. At 2 years, despite medical therapy, chylothorax developed. A section of the right ventricular free wall that spanned the fibromuscular obstruction was excised under total venous inflow occlusion (TVIO) using the incised pericardial patch technique.
Cadaveric study.
Medium to large breed dog cadavers (n=10; 20 pelvic limbs).
TPLO was performed using the currently recommended technique involving dissection of the proximal tibial soft tissue envelope and its protection using cotton gauze sponges. In paired limbs, the procedure was repeated but no attempt was made to retract and protect the proximal tibial soft tissue envelope. Damage to the soft tissue envelope and presence of gross particulate cotton debris were investigated by direct observation and photographic analysis. Presence of microscopic cotton debris was investigated using light microscopic analysis of wound lavage fluid.
Case report.
A 2-year-old male Pug.
MMM was diagnosed in a Pug with a 2-week history of trismus by electrodiagnostics, histopathology, and 2M antibody test. During anesthesia tongue protrusion occurred and because of trismus, an inability to reposition the tongue resulted in venous congestion and severe swelling. Forceful physical attempts and subsequent removal of the rostral digastricus and masseter muscle attachments from the mandible did not increase jaw mobility. Mandibular symphysiotomy was necessary to resolve lingual venous congestion and to reposition the tongue into the oral cavity.
Case report.
A 5-month-old male foal.
After open surgical reduction, an HEF built with wires, 2 half-rings, 3 half-threaded connecting rods, and Schanz pins was used to stabilize the fracture.
Case series.
Skeletally immature (mean age, 17 weeks; range, 12-23 weeks) dogs (n=5) with isolated diaphyseal tibial fractures.
Medical records (2006-2007) of 5 dogs with isolated diaphyseal tibial fractures treated with Type 1a ESF were reviewed and outcome assessed by clinical examination and telephone interviews.
Case series.
Cattle (n=7) with DIPJ arthritis.
Retrieved data from medical records of cattle that had undergone DIPJ arthrodesis using 2 AP screws via a solar approach were signalment, history, clinical signs, preoperative blood work, preoperative radiographs, complications, postoperative radiographs, and postoperative lameness evaluation. Outcomes, assessed by owner interview 6-26 months after surgery, were classified as excellent, good, or poor.
Experimental study.
Isolates of MRSA (n=35) had their amikacin MIC determined using the E-test agar diffusion method. Two isolates with MICs&gt;256 microg/mL limit were further characterized using broth macrodilution. Six distinct isolates with amikacin MICs of 32, 48, 128 (2 isolates) and 500 (2 isolates) microg/mL had PAE determinations made over a range of amikacin concentrations from 31.25-1000 microg/mL using standard culture-based techniques.
We present a case of a 64-year old woman with a Spontaneous rupture of the right gastroepiploic artery with hemorrhagic shock that was successfully treated by emergency surgery.
We recruited 100 subjects with IBS as per Rome II criteria (50 consulters and 50 non-consulters) and 100 healthy controls, matched by age, sex and educational level. Cases and controls completed a clinical questionnaire (including symptom characteristics and medical consultation) and the following tests: rational-intelligence (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, 3rd edition); experiential-intelligence (Constructive Thinking Inventory); personality (NEO personality inventory); psychopathology (MMPI-2), anxiety (state-trait anxiety inventory) and life events (social readjustment rating scale). Analysis of variance was used to compare the test results of IBS-sufferers and controls, and a logistic regression model was then constructed and adjusted for age, sex and educational level to evaluate any possible association with IBS.
Twenty-three patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma underwent dynamic CT and tumor resection. In addition to the absolute and relative enhanced value that was calculated by subtracting the attenuation value on pre-contrast from those on contrast-enhanced CT in each phase, we defined one parameter, "tumor-aorta enhancement ratio", which was calculated by dividing enhancement of pancreatic cancer by enhancement of abdominal aorta in each phase. These enhancement patterns were correlated with the level of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), microvessel density (MVD), and extent of fibrosis.
All patients diagnosed with MC by colonic biopsy from 1996-2005 were identified utilizing a pathology database. All biopsies were reviewed by experienced pathologists utilizing standard histologic criteria. Patients' medical records were reviewed and data regarding patient age, co-morbidities, sex, ethnicity, and medications were analyzed. An age- and sex-matched standard control group was also generated. Chi-square test was used to evaluate the associations of co-morbidities between lymphocytic colitis (LC), collagenous colitis (CC) and the control group.
Medical records for 123 patients with MMM were reviewed.
Comprehensive serum BA profiling was performed in 358 IBD patients and 310 healthy controls by liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.
Cases with a pathological diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus were obtained from Department of Pathology files, at the National Cancer Institute in Mexico City during the period between 2000 and 2008. Slides from each case were reviewed and cases with sufficient neoplastic tissue were selected for molecular analysis. DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded tissue samples for polymerase chain reaction analysis to detect HPV DNA sequences. Demographic and clinical data of each patient were retrieved from corresponding clinical records.
This was a retrospective study of all patients undergoing PEG insertion at our institution between June 1999 and June 2006. Post-PEG complications were compared between two groups according to the presence or absence of VP shunts. VP shunt infection rates, the interval between PEG placement and VP shunt catheter insertion, and long-term follow-up were also investigated.
A Markov model estimated the clinical and economic consequences of a simulated 50-year-old male cancer survivors' cohort, and we compared the results of eight screening strategies: no screening, fecal occult blood test (FOBT) annually, FOBT every 2 years, sigmoidoscopy every 5 years, double contrast barium enema every 5 years, and colonoscopy every 10 years (COL10), every 5 years (COL5), and every 3 years (COL3). We included only direct medical costs, and our main outcome measures were discounted lifetime costs, life expectancy, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
Clarithromycin susceptibility of H pylori isolates was determined by E test. Analyses for point mutations in the domain V of 23S rRNA genes in clarithromycin-resistant and -sensitive strains were performed by sequence analysis of amplified polymerase chain reaction products. Restriction fragment length polymorphism was performed using BsaI and MboII enzymes to detect restriction sites that correspond to the mutations in the clarithromycin-resistant strains.
In 10 male SD rats, normothermic CPB was established and continued with a flow rate of 100-150 mL/kg per minute for 60 min, while another 10 sham-operated animals served as controls. An approximate 10-cm loop of the terminal ileum was exteriorized for observation by means of intravital fluorescence microscopy. The small bowel microcirculatory network including arterioles, capillaries, and collecting venules was observed prior to CPB, CPB 30 min, CPB 60 min, post-CPB 60 min and post-CPB 120 min. The intestinal capillary perfusion, microvascular permeability and leukocyte adherence were also measured.
The translation process included forward translation, back translation, pretest and cross-cultural adaptation. Reliability and validity of the translated version were examined by asking 300 subjects to complete the Chinese version of the NDI. The mean age of subjects was 39.24 years and 68.7% of the subjects were women. Internal consistency analysis with Cronbach's alpha was performed to test the reliability. Correlation analysis was used to assess the content validity. Factor analysis and structural equation models were used to assess the construct validity.
Human embryo hepatic cell line L02 was transfected with pcDNA3.1-core plasmid and selected by G418. Expression of HCV-core was detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. The OAS promoter sequence was amplified from the genomic DNA and inserted into pGL3-basic vector. The resultant pGL3-OAS-Luci plasmid was transiently transfected into L02/core cells and luciferase activity was assayed.
QOL assessments that included functional outcomes (a 24-item survey about treatment-specific symptoms) and health perception (Spitzer QOL Index) were performed in 149 patients with gastric cancer in the upper third of the stomach, who had received proximal gastrectomy with additional esophagogastrostomy.
We report a case of a 52 year old woman having previously undergone treatment for ovarian serous papillary carcinoma who subsequently presented with a large solitary mass in the liver. Initially this was presumed to be metastasis from the ovarian primary however, on further examination it was shown to be a primary hepatic embryonal sarcoma.
Autopsy was performed in 5 neonates died of EV71 infection. Tissue samples from major organs were collected, formalin-fixed and examined under light microscopy. Immunohistochemical study was carried out in selected examples.
The HE-stained paraffin sections of 10 cases of chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis encountered during the period from 2000 to 2008 were retrospectively analyzed.
Routine pathological examination was performed on 1 neonate, 2 dead fetuses and 2 placentas using either autopsy or biopsy materials.
Thirty-six cases of AFS were retrieved from the department archival files of Beijing Tongren Hospital from 2002 to 2006. AB-PAS, GMS and MUC5B stain were performed using paraffin-embedded tissues of the cases. Ten cases with available fresh diagnostic tissue were investigated by electron microscopy.
One hundred and four cases colorectal serrated lesions were collected from 2628 cases of colorectal polyps during the period from November, 2002 to December, 2007. The clinicopathologic features and expression of proliferation marker Ki-67 were studied.
A retrospective analysis and comparison were done respectively between the accuracies of diagnoses made by using frozen and paraffin sections from the same tissue blocks for BTO from March 1995 to May 2008 achieved in the Department of Pathology, Guangdong General Hospital. Univariate and multivariate regression models were used to assess the influence of patient and tumor characteristics on the likelihood of underdiagnosis and overdiagnosis.
Human gastric carcinoma cell MGC-803 and murine cervical carcinoma cell U14 were transfected with the plasmid pEGFP-N1 and the efficiency of transfection was assessed 24 h later. Limited dilution was employed to screen and establish monoclonal cell strains, MGC-803-GFP and U14-GFP. The two fluorescent tumor cell stains were transplanted into BALB/c-nu mice and C57BL/6J mice respectively. The latency period of tumor mass appearance and the growth curve in vivo were documented. The tumor growth and metastasis were evaluated in vivo by the Viviperception Fluorescence Imagining System (VFIS). Expressions of CD44 and E-cadherin in tumor tissue were monitored by immunohistochemistry.
Mouse MSCs were isolated from bone marrow and cultured with 50 mg/L PDGF-BB and fetal bovine serum (20%). Specific myocardin-siRNA sequence was cloned into a plasmid pGenesil-1.0 vector, which contained U6 promoter. The recombinant plasmid and control plasmid were transfected into MSCs which had been cultured with PDGF-BB for 6 days beforehand. The expression of myocardin mRNA was detected by RT-PCR 48 hours after the transfection. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the SM-MHC and to identify the smooth muscle-like cells.
All premature infants with a gestational age less than 37 weeks in the 9 hospitals were subjected to routine cranial ultrasound examination within 3 approximately 7 days after birth, and then the examination was repeated every other 3 approximately 7 days till the discharge from the hospital during Jan. 2005 to Aug. 2006. The severity of IVH was graded based on Papile classification for IVH.
Data of 1000 premature infants (100 infants from each hospital) were retrospectively collected, the data included their gestational age, the growth parameters at birth, complications, enteral and parenteral nutritional support strategies, the growth parameters at discharge and length of hospital stay from Jan. 1, 2005 to Jun. 30, 2006. The growth parameters, including body weight, length and head circumference, were evaluated according to growth curve of newborns in China with their gestational age at birth and corrected gestational age on discharge. Growth retardation was defined as less than the 10th percentile of the expected value. The risk factors which might result in growth retardation of premature infants were assessed with logistic regression. P &lt; 0.05 was considered as significant.
All data on the national neonatal screening in the past 22 years were from National Center for Clinical Laboratory. Study items included the development and mode of the program, screening method adopted as well as the clinical records of prevalence, treatment and follow-up etc.
Data of 10 newborn infants with laryngeal stridor and dyspnea, admitted to the department of neonatology in our hospital during December, 2004 to August, 2007, who were finally diagnosed with LTDC though previously diagnosed as congenital laryngeal stridor in other hospitals, were summarized and analyzed.
From October, 2006 to December 2006, retinal vascularization was screened and evaluated in 84 neonates at different weeks of gestation and birth weights (BWs), had dilated fundus evaluation for zone of retinal vascularization by the 130 degrees lens of a digital fundus camera. The infants' pupils were dilated with 2.5% phenylephrine and 0.5% cyclopentolate eye drops. The study cohort was divided into subgroups depending on the weeks of gestation and birth weights. The control group consisted of healthy term infants. Maternal and neonatal factors were ascertained and analysed.
Twenty-three patients were referred to our department for evaluation of syncope. The diagnosis of the above cases was cardiac syncope. Each patient was interviewed using a standard questionnaire. The clinical histories and standard baseline electrocardiogram were analyzed to identify the variables contributing to the diagnosis of CS in children.
A 12-month randomized, open-label, multicenter trial was conducted in 31 previously untreated children with growth failure secondary to GH deficiency [20 boys and 11 girls, mean age (10.5 +/- 4.1) years]. An recombined human growth hormone (rhGH) solution (Iintropin AQ) was given via subcutaneous injection daily in every evening at a weekly dose of 0.25 mg/kg. The patients were followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months of the treatment, and the course of treatment was 12 months. Body height was measured 3-monthly and height velocity (HV) and mean height standard deviation score (HT SDS) were calculated. Serum Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1), Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), GH antibodies and safety parameters were assessed at the baseline and at 3-month intervals. Bone age (BA) was assessed at the baseline and the rate of skeletal maturation (DeltaBA/DeltaCA) was calculated after 6 and 12 months of rhGH treatment by a central bone age reader. Moreover, the safety of rhGH solution treatment was assessed.
Data of consecutive 112 children with SAA who had no HLA-matched sibling seen from January 2000 to June 2006 were retrospectively analyzed. The patients were randomized to receive one of the following IST regimens: cyclosporine A (CSA) alone (IST regimen I); CSA and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) [400 mg/(kg x d) x 5 d] (IST regimen II); rabbit anti-T-lymphocyte globulin (R-ATG) [3-5 mg/(kg x d) x 5 d] and CSA (IST regimen III). No repeated courses of R-ATG were given for nonresponders. All the patients also received stanozolol or testosterone propionate. The dose of CSA was adjusted to maintain trough drug levels above 100 microg/L and peak drug levels above 300 microg/L.
2E8-Genistein immunotoxin was generated by conjugating Mab 2E8 with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, Genistein (Gen) via the Sulfo-SANPAH, an ultra-violet sensitive reagent. Nalm-6, a CD19+ B cell leukemia cell line, was used as target cells, while Molt-3, a CD19-T cell leukemia cell line, was taken as the negative control. The morphology of the cells was observed under the reverted reversed light microscope and the viability was checked with either trypan blue exclusion or MTT methods. Two-color flow cytometry was applied to study the mechanism of cell killing.
Samples of genitourinary tract secretion from 146 children who were suspected of having nongonococcal urethritis or colpitis were collected and tested for mycoplasma via culture and for chlamydia with antigen detection. Meanwhile, susceptibility test was carried out on the samples which were positive in mycoplasma cultivation. Chlamydia antigen was detected by the polymer conjugate-enhanced (PCE) indirect enzyme immunoassay (EIA) (IDEIA PCE Chlamydia; DAKO). The mycoplasma culture medium was produced by Nanjing Liming Biological Products Co,. Ltd. Antibiotics used for susceptibility test were erythromycin, roxithromycin, josamycin, leucomycin, meleumycin, rovamycin, azithromycin, clarithromycin, cycloate erythromycin, and clindamycin.
Blood samples were obtained from 88 children, of whom 14 had definitive or possible invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA), 16 had other invasive pulmonary fungal infection and 58 had pulmonary non-fungal infection. Of the 58 patients, 23 had bacterial pneumonia, 20 had mycoplasma pneumonia and 15 had pulmonary tuberculosis. A double-direct sandwich ELISA was employed to detect GM optical density index (ODI) in the serum sample. GM ODI were observed before and after treatment in six children with IPA. Measurement data followed the Gaussian distribution were expressed as x(-) +/- s; differences among groups were tested using a single factor analysis of variance. If the s&gt;1/3 x(-), measurement data were expressed as M [minimum, maximum], and the differences among groups were tested by a rank sum test. P &lt; 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant.
Bronchoscopic examinations were performed in 671 children. The cases with tracheomalacia and bronchomalacia were analyzed in etiopathogenesis and summarized their therapy simultaneously.
Sixty male Wistar rats of "Clean" grade, 6 - 7 week-old, with an average weight of (140 +/- 20) g were used in this study. The rats were randomly divided into 6 groups, 10 in each. Group A was treated with normal saline attack as a negative control, Group B with ovalbumin attack as a positive control. After ovalbumin attack, groups C, D, E, F continued to inhale DEP for 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks and 4 weeks, respectively. The concentration of DEP was 200 microg/ml, the animals were subjected to inhalation of ultrasound nebulized DEP for 30 min per day. One week after all the attacks were concluded, Group A was stimulated with normal saline for 30 min, other groups were stimulated with ovalbumin. Then the airway resistance was determined with multi-channel signal acquisition and processing system and compared. The changes in neutrophils, eosinophils, and other inflammatory cells of BALF and the pathological changes in lung tissue, including epithelial cells loss, the inflammatory cells infiltration around the airway, basement membrane fibrosis, goblet cell hyperplasia etc. were observed. The concentration of IL-5 and gamma-interferon in the lung tissues, and the changes of serum IgE etc. were determined.
The 8 years old male proband from a Chinese family was clinically diagnosed with MPSII. There are other 4 patients with similar phenotypes in the family who died at 9, 11, 7 and 10 years of age, respectively. Mutation analysis was carried out by polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing of all exons and exon/intron boundaries of IDS gene. Denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) analysis was performed to screen the unknown variations of IDS gene in 100 unrelated control males.
Totally 308 obese children aged from 9 to 14 years with mean age of (10.7 +/- 2.6) years were enrolled. Two hundred and thirty one were males, and 77 were females. Body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), biochemical indicators, liver B-mode ultrasound examination, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and insulin releasing test were performed for all of the cases. The incidences of NAFLD including simple nonalcoholic fatty liver (SNAFL) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) as well as MS were calculated. Three subgroups were selected according to the diagnostic criteria: Group 1: OCWLD (obese children without liver disorder), Group 2: SNAFL and Group 3: NASH. The prevalence of MS, components of MS, free insulin, whole body insulin sensitivity index (WBISI), homeostasis model of insulin resistance (HOMA(IR)) were compared among these three subgroups.
Totally 32 untreated patients diagnosed with HPA were studied, including 18 boys and 14 girls (age ranging from 33 days to 13 years). The patients were divided into two groups: elder than 4 months old (n = 22) and younger than 4 months old (n = 10). (1)HMRS were performed in all patients. [Phe](brain) were measured by absolute [Phe](brain) using Creatinine as an internal reference. [Phe](blood) were measured and developmental quotient (DQ) or intelligence quotients (IQ) were evaluated.
Individual phenotype characteristic and clinical severity of 126 children with RTT diagnosed by molecular genetic methods were evaluated by using scales of Kerr et al and Scala et al. Statistical package SPSS 12.0 was used for analyses of data. Since the majority of the data were not normally distributed, non-parametric tests were used. The Kruskal-Wallis test/Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney test was employed to compare total severity phenotype scores. The Fisher exact test was used for comparing rates. Statistical significance was set at P &lt; 0.05.
Thirty-four inpatients with inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis/UC/: 24; Crohn's disease/CD/:10) were enrolled into this study. Data of clinical manifestations, laboratory values, endoscopic findings and histopathological features of biopsy material were analyzed.
The clinical data as well as weights, lengths, HC of 40 sick premature infants (sick group) and 30 premature infants without any diseases (control group) were collected and the serum levels of LEP, NPY, INS and IGF-1 were determined by using radioimmunoassay (RIA) at d 1, d 7 and d 12 of life. BMI was calculated by weight (kg)/length (m)(2). SPSS13.0 was used to analyze the data
Between January 1, 2003 and December 30, 2005, 15 consecutive newborn infants with IVH grades III to IV, complicated with progressive ventricular dilatation, underwent placement of an Ommaya reservoir. CSF was intermittently aspirated percutaneously from the reservoir. The amount and frequency of CSF aspiration were based on the clinical presentation and the follow-up results of serial cranial ultrasonograms or CT scans. The changes of CSF cell counts and chemistries were also followed. Patients whose progressive ventricular dilatation persisted despite serial CSF aspiration through Ommaya reservoir eventually had ventriculo-peritoneal shunts (V-P shunt) placed. All the patients were followed up in the outpatient clinic after discharge from the hospital and the neurodevelopmental outcomes were evaluated through 18-36 months of age.
Random cluster sampling was used. The fourth national growth survey of children under 7 years in the nine cities (Beijing, Harbin, Xi'an, Shanghai, Nanjing, Wuhan, Fuzhou, Guangzhou and Kunming) of China was performed in 2005 and from this survey, data of 69 760 urban healthy boys and girls were used to set up the database for weight-for-age, height-for-age (length was measured for children under 3 years) and head circumference-for-age. Anthropometric data were ascribed to rigorous methods of data collection and standardized procedures across study sites. LMS method based on BOX-COX normal transformation and cubic splines smoothing technique was chosen for fitting the raw data according to study design and data features, and standardized values of any percentile and standard deviation were obtained by the special formulation of L, M and S parameters. Length-for-age and height-for-age standards were constructed by fitting the same model but the final curves reflected the 0.7 cm average difference between these two measurements. A set of systematic diagnostic tools was used to detect possible biases in estimated percentiles or standard deviation curves, including chi2 test, which was used for reference to evaluate to the goodness of fit.
From September 1997 to September 2006, 14 newly diagnosed patients with the tumors were admitted, 9 were boys, and 5 were girls, the median age was 7.04 years, ranging from 1.58 years to 11.67 years. Among them, 9 patients were younger than 10 years. By the time of diagnosis, 9 patients had local diseases, and the other 5 patients had metastatic diseases. All the patients' diagnoses were confirmed by pathological studies. Nine patients had Ewing's sarcoma by histology, and the other 5 patients had peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PPNET). All of the patients were treated with multidisciplinary therapy, and RS-2002 Protocol for chemotherapy was used to treat patients with rhabdomyosarcoma in our hospital. Surgery and irradiation were performed for local control. Imaging studies were used for evaluation, reevaluation and follow-up.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) was detected using flow cytometry and WASP were analyzed for the diagnosis. The bone marrow was collected from the elder sister who was the HLA identical sibling donor. A total of 4.38x10(8)/kg mononuclear cell (MNC) and 3.78x10(6)/kg CD34+ cells were collected and transfused into the patient after the conditioning regimen with busulfan/cyclophosphamide. Cyclosporine only was used for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis. WASP and short tandem repeats (STR) were detected as the evidence of engraftment.
The diagnosis of this disease mainly depends on the measurement of C3 propionylcarnitine, C3/C0 (free carnitine) and C3/C2 (acetylcarnitine) in the blood by tandem mass spectrometry, the detection of methylmalonic acid in the urine by gas-chromatography mass spectrometry, the determination of total homocysteine in the serum, and the loading test of vitamin B12. The entire coding region of MMACHC gene was screened by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) combined with DNA direct sequencing in 28 Chinese patients. Genomic DNA was extracted using phenol-chloroform method from the peripheral blood leukocytes of each patient. PCR amplification products were checked by 1.8% agarose gel electrophoresis and were subsequently sequenced with both the forward and reverse primers. Mutational analyses were performed using normal human genomic MMACHC sequence as a reference (GenBank ID: 25974).
Six-week-old rats were divided randomly into normal control (CN group, n=8), diabetes mellitus group (DM group, n=8) and taurine supplement group (DM+TAU group, n=8). Diabetes was induced in the rats by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (STZ, 60 mg/kg) and after the onset of diabetes, the rats in DM+TAU group were given free access to drinking water containing 1% taurine. At the end of 4 weeks, blood glucose, serum total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL), oxidized low density lipoprotein (oxLDL) and sICAM-1 levels were determined, meanwhile LOX-1 and ICAM-1 expression on abdominal aortas were examined by immunostaining, Western blotting and reverse transcription PCR, respectively. The results were quantified by densitometry.
One hundred children [ &lt; or = 15 years old, mean age (7.3+/-4.6) years, 53 male, 47 female] and one hundred adults [51 male, 49 female, age (44.6+/-13.5) years with TB] and 200 healthy controls of comparable age were screened for genotype by PCR-sequence-specific primer (SSP) method. MCP-1 levels in the sera were detected by ELISA.
Eighty newborn Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into hyperoxia and normoxia control groups, then each group was further divided into 4, 7, 10, 14 and 20 days subgroups. Beginning on day 1 of life, 40 rats in hyperoxia group were exposed to hyperoxia [(75+/-2)% O2] for 7 days, and subsequently were moved into room air, thus ROP model was set up. An additional 40 rats were raised in room air served as age matched controls. Rats of postnatal day4 (d 4), d 7, d 10, d 14 and d 20 were sacrificed respectively. Rats left eyes were obtained, the anterior half of the eyeball and the vitreous were removed, then the retinae were gently scraped off the choroid, and used to delineate retinal vascular development by adenosine diphosphatase (ADPase) staining. Right eyes were embedded in paraffin and frozen sections were stained with immunohistochemistry to measure the expression of ang-2 in the retinae. Meanwhile, the number of new vascular cell nuclei extending into the internal limiting membrane in cross-sections was counted after HE staining to assess retinal neovascularization.
Preterm infants (birth weight 1000-2000 g) recruited into the study were randomized into three groups. High amino acid group (HP): 2.4 g/(kg.d) of amino acid IV within 24 hours after birth increasing by increments of 1.2 g/(kg.d) to a maximum of 3.6 g/(kg. d); medium amino acid group (MP): 1.0 g/(kg.d) of amino acid IV 24 hours after birth, increasing by increments of 0.5 g/(kg.d) until a maximum of 3.0 g/(kg.d); and low amino acid group (LP): 0.5 g/(kg.d) of amino acid on D3, increasing by increments of 0.5 g/(kg.d) until a maximum of 3.0 g/(kg.d) as the final dose.
Medical records of 98 patients who were transferred to our hospital were retrospectively reviewed. The risk factors, such as age, gender, time being besieged, type of injury, wound infection, hemodialysis, etc., which were assessed with T-test/chi(2)/Fisher's exact tests and logistic regression analysis for the occurrence of crush syndrome after crush injury. Possible risk factors influencing CS severity were analyzed.
Of the ninety-eight injured children, 50 had wound infection diagnosed by clinical examination. Specimens for culture were collected from the fifty injured children and the results of bacterial identification and antibiotic resistance were retrospectively reviewed.
Eighty HFMD cases were divided into four groups, A, B, C and D, according to the severity of patients' nervous system manifestation and other system involved. Different intensive care and treatments were used and the effect and outcome were analyzed for each group. All statistical analyses were performed by using SPSS software 13.0. One-way ANOVA and Chi-square test were used for data analysis.
The clinical characteristics of the 8 HFMD cases were investigated, and MRI findings were analyzed. The recovery of their impairment in limbs was followed up for three months.
Imaging data of a case with PCT, including ultrasound, X-ray, CT, MRI were collected from the case with PCTs treated in our hospital. The features of the images were analyzed for identification of the conjoined region, size, and structures and for judgement of other organ malformation and general body state.
Among the 327 B-ALL children enrolled in our study, 289 cases were identified with at least one antigen combination as MRD marker. Their bone marrow samples were monitored by using 9 combinations with 4 antigens each, analyzed the occurrence rates and compared them with international reports. Also the differences in the distribution of each antibody combination in the different clinical-biologic groups were compared by the chi-square test and Fisher's exact test.
The original data had been obtained from two national representative cross-sectional surveys which were 2005 National Survey of Physical Development of Children (under 7 years of age) and 2005 Chinese National Survey on Students Constitution and Health (6 - 18 years). Reference curves of height and weight of children under 7 years of age was constructed by LMS method, and data of children from 6 to 18 years of age were smoothed by cubic spline function and transformed by modified LMS procedure. Growth velocity was calculated by smoothed values of height and weight. Simple linear model was fitted for children 1 to 10 years of age, for which smoothed height and weight values were used.
The completion status of projects in pediatrics funded by department of clinical medicine II from 2002 to 2006 was analysed retrospectively, and important research achievement and outstanding development in some projects were reported.
Endometrial tissue was sampled from 74 hysterectomy specimens including 32 cases with adenomyosis and 42 cases with uterine fibroids. Two-step Envision immunohistochemical staining was used to detect distribution of nerve fibers in endometrium. Highly specific polyclonal rabbit anti-protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5) and monoclonal mouse anti-neurofilament protein (NF) were used to demonstrate both myelinated and unmyelinated nerve fibers in endometrium in women with adenomyosis and uterine fibroids.
From Jan 2003 to Mar 2008, 662 patients with endometrioma undergoing laparoscopic ovarian endometrioma excision in Peking Union Medical College Hospital were studied retrospectively. All patients were classified into four groups according to the extent of adhesions: 31 cases in none adhesions group, 123 cases in mild adhesions group (filmy thickness, avascular, easily separated adhesions), 310 cases in moderate adhesions group (less than a half of ovary was adjacent to dense thickness adhesions which was difficult to separate, or above a half of ovary were adjacent to filmy thickness adhesions) and 198 cases in severe adhesions group (above a half of ovary was adjacent to dense thickness, well vascularized adhesions which was difficult to separate, and always involved the other pelvic organs, observed angiogenesis). The comparison of degree, characteristics, period of pain, lab test, surgical management and postoperative recurrence was performed among those above groups. In the mean time, risk factors and multinomial logistic regression were analyzed.
The incidence of pelvic adhesions, dysmenorrhea, chronic pelvic pain, dyspareunia, dyschizia in 480 patients with EM were studied retrospectively to evaluate the correlation between pelvic adhesions and the degree of pain symptoms. In accordance with the revised American Fertility Society classification (r-AFS), it was observed that 155 cases were in Stage I, 33 cases were in stage II, 108 cases were in stage III and 184 were cases in stage IV.
A case-control (1:2) observational study was conducted. Forty-seven pregnant women with SPE, who attended the prenatal clinics of Peking University Third Hospital regularly from Jan. 2002 to Dec. 2007, were selected as the study group, including 12 early onset and 35 late onset ones. The control group consisted of 94 healthy singleton pregnant women at the same period. Clinical data were collected and analyzed.
Fifty-eight pregnant women complicating cardiac disease (including 32 cases with congenital heart disease, 14 cases with rheumatic heart disease and 8 cases with arrhythmia) were enrolled in this study, among 26 cases coexisted with pulmonary hypertension. According to the pressure of PH, those patients were divided into three groups: 11 cases in mild group [30 - 49 mm Hg (1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa)], 9 cases in moderate group (50 - 79 mm Hg) and 6 cases in severe group (&gt;or= 80 mm Hg). In the mean time, 15 healthy pregnant women were matched as control. Tei index were measured for LV and RV respectively.
Forty term pregnant women, who delivered through cesarean section at the Xiangya Second Hospital of Central South University from February 2007 to November 2007, were selected and divided into 2 groups: 20 in labor group and 20 in non-labor group. Another 20 non-pregnant women undergoing hysterectomy due to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia were chosen as the control. Real-time fluorescence quantitative RT-PCR and western blot were applied to detect the expression RhoA and ROCK I mRNA and protein in uterine smooth muscle tissue and the correlation between the mRNA and protein expression of RhoA and ROCK I were analyzed.
Between June 2007 and January 2008, detailed dissections and related measurements of the regions around the ischial spine were performed on 10 Chinese female cadavers (3 unembalmed and 7 embalmed cadavers). At the same time, the sacrospinous ligament, the fascia on the ischial spine, the iliococcygeus fascia as well as the vaginal fornix were exposed and the pull-out strength sequentially tested using a digital push-pull force gauge.
From January 2007 to July 2008, the endometrium specimens were collected from 43 patients with adenomyosis undergoing hysterectomy in Peking University First Hospital. Eutopic endometrium were 11 in proliferative phase and 32 in secretory phase (18 cases in mid-secretory phase) were collected. Ectopic endometriums were also collected. In the mean time, it was chosen 41 cases with pure subserous uterine myoma or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) II-III treated by hysterectomy as controls including 12 endometrium in proliferative phase and 29 endometrium in secretory phase (19 cases in mid-secretory phase). The expression of Integrin beta3 subunit and OPN in the endometrium were assessed by immunohistochemical staining and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.
From October 2006 to September 2007, 37 cervical cancer patients with stage Ib1 to II a underwent LANSRH (LANSRH group) with pelvic lymphadenectomy matched 25 patients with cervical cancer treated by general laparoscopic radical hysterectomy (LRH, LRH group) with pelvic lymphadenectomy. The data of operating time, blood loss, numbers of lymph node, the length of resected vaginal and paracervix tissue were collected and compared. In the mean time, postoperative recovery of bladder function was evaluated.
Twenty-one patients with vulvar squamous cancer undergoing radical surgery admitted in Cancer Hospital of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences from Oct. 2004 to Apr. 2008, were enrolled in the study. SLNB procedure was performed with blue dye alone in the first eleven patients, while the later ten patients, a combination procedure with radioactive tracer and blue dye was used to detect sentinel lymph node (SLN). All resected nodes were submitted to the pathological examination, which was considered as the gold standard to determine the efficacy of SLNB. The complications related to SLNB were also observed during the study.
Western blot was used to detect the expression of NICD in the tissues of 40 cervical cancers and 21 normal cervix and its relationship with clinical features of cervical cancer was also analyzed. Proliferation of SiHa and HeLa cervical cells was determined by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assay, cell cycles and apoptosis and index of proliferation were detected by flow cytometry method. The expression of NICD in SiHa and HeLa cells incubated with DAPT was detected by western blot.
Magnetic bead and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) were used to detect the serum samples from 54 cases with cervical cancer before and after surgery and 53 serum samples from healthy women. The results of spectra were analyzed by Biomarker Wizard software.
It was a retrospective case series study. Nine eyes from 9 male patients, aged 28 to 52 years old, accepted permanent keratoprosthesis transplantation in Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center from March 2002 to June 2005. All patients had corneal lesion in both eyes for 1.5 to 5.0 years. Among the 9 treated eyes, 6 eyes was severe vascularization after alkali burns, 3 eyes explosive injuries. Light perception was remained in all patients before surgery, however, 2 eyes only had a questionable orientation of light perception among them. Surgical management was divided into two stages. In the first stage, transplantation of Titanium skirt compound keratoprosthesis was performed, and the explant was reinforced by the self auricular cartilage and Tendons capsule. The second stage of surgery was performed in 5 to 6 months later, in which the membrane in the front of keratoprosthesis was cut. After the surgery, visual acuity, visual field, intraocular pressure and retina were examined. The complications were noticed and managed.
Fusarium solani, Fusarium moniliforme, Fusarium oxysporum, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus, which covered about 80% of pathogenic fungi of fungal keratitis, were chosen as target species of this study. Five species-specific capture probes were designed in the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of ribosomal DNA and synthesized with 5' amino modifier C12 to covalently bind to different sets of fluorescent beads. Biotinylated amplicons of 5 reference strains and 42 clinical strains were generated with a pair of universal primers to yield fragments for detection. Comparison between single species detection and multiplex detection were designed, as well as detection between array and agarose gel electrophoresis (AGE). Spearman rank correlation analysis and t test were applied to evaluate the specificity, sensibility and reproducibility of suspension array.
It was a retrospective case series study. Twenty-two cases (22 eyes) of hospitalized patients suffering from alkali burned cornea and requiring keratoplasty from January to December 2005 were analyzed retrospectively. Before surgery, injury time (IT) and injury degree (ID) were recorded. Furthermore, inflammation index (II) and relative area of new blood vessels (BVA) were measured. Cornea specimens were assessed for lymphatic vessel counting (LVC) and blood vessel counting (BVC) via immunohistochemical staining and transmission electronic microscopy. Meanwhile, HE staining was also performed to observe infiltration of polymorphonuclear (PMN) leucocytes in corneal tissues. Student t-test, Pearson correlation test and Stepwise regression analysis were used to investigate the influencing factors.
It was a prospective nonrandomized controlled study. Sixty-five patients (80 eyes) received phacoemulsification and IOL implantation were divided into two groups, 41 patients (50 eyes) in the multifocal group, and 24 patients (30 eyes) in the monofocal group. Three months or longer after surgery, the results of the uncorrected distance, intermediate and near vision; the best-corrected distance, intermediate and near vision; the intermediate and near vision after the distance vision corrected; the contrast sensitivity and the wave-front aberrations were recorded. The subjective visual performance after surgery was evaluated by the questionnaire. The chi-square test was applied to compare categorical variables, and the independent-samples t test was used to compare the measure data.
This was a retrospective analysis of eyelid defects reconstruction in 13 patients with lateral canthus eyelid defect following the excision of the eyelid tumors including: seven patients with basal cell carcinoma, four patients with sebaceous cell carcinoma and two patients with squamous cell carcinoma. All eyelid defects were reconstructed with zygoma periosteal stripe as the posterior layer of the eyelid. The anterior layer of the eyelid was reconstructed by myocutaneous flap.
Students from 7 high schools were examined with pseudoisochromatic color plates and further with Farnsworth Munsell 100 test. The chi-square test was applied to compare categorical variables, and the independent-samples t test was used to compare the measure data.
Tears were obtained from 8 conjunctivochalasis cases and 8 normal controls. Fifteen microliters of tears was collected by microcapillary tubes from each eye. Shotgun strategy was used for tear protein analysis. Trypsin digestion in-solution, separation of peptide mixture by reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatograph (RP-HPLC) followed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) identification and bioinformation analysis were used in this study.
Experimental research.785 specimens obtained from children below the age of 14 in Beijing Tongren Hospital during 1999 to 2004 were cultured and identified for bacterium, fungus and Acanthamoeba respectively at Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology. Microbial culture-positive rate, susceptibility patterns and the organisms distribution of positive cultures were retrospectively analyzed. The results were statistical analyzed by chi(2).
A design group was adopted. 102 Wistar rats were divided into four groups at random, including rapamycin liposome treated group (24 rats), the rapamycin solved in bean oil treated group (24 rats), blank liposome treated group (24 rats), blank treated group (24 rats) and normal control group (6 rats). All right eyes of 96 rats were induced by alkali cauterization. Rapamycin liposome were prepared by thin film hydration and the major factors were studied by the method of orthogonal design. After alkali burn, cauterized rats were observed by slitlamp biomicroscope every day. On the 1st, 4th, 7th, 14th days after operation, the expression of HIF-1alpha and VEGF were examined by immunohistochemical method and semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The analysis of variance and q test groups for analysis were adopted to analyze the results.
It was an experimental study. Cultured RCE cells were exposed to EGF at different concentrations (0, 1, 5, 10, 25 and 50 microg/L) and different time (0, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 days). Cell morphologic changes were observed under a phase contrast microscope. Cell proliferation was measured using the WST-1 cell proliferation assay. The expression of cell cycle-regulatory proteins, cyclinD1, CDK4, p27, p21 and p18, was examined using Western blot analysis. The data was statistically analyzed with SPSS 11.5 software, difference between two groups and multiple groups was compared by t test and ANOVA, respectively.
It was an experimental study. Corneal neovascularization was induced by alkali burn in 40 rats. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and fibroblast activation protein (FAP) in the stroma surrounding corneal neovascularization were detected by immunohistochemical studies on day 1, 3 and 7 after chemical burn. Platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (CD31) was used to identify the vascular endothelial cells. RT-PCR was used to identify FAP in the cornea 3 and 7 days after chemical burn. Picrosirius staining and polarization microscopy were used to detect changes of collagen types I and III in the cornea.
It was a control experimental study. RGC were purified from twenty SD neonatal rats (postnatal 1 - 3 days) using Thy1.1 antibody and cultured under the pressures of 0, 20, 40, 60, and 80 mm Hg (1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa) respectively. The growth and survival times of RGC were observed, the numbers of processes of RGC were counted, and the processes measured under the different pressures after 48 h under phase-contrast microscope. The expression of NF-H and its distribution in primary purified RGC was investigated by an immunohistochemical technique and by semi-quantitative statistics analysis using microscopic image-analysis technique. The data was analyzed with SPSS 13.0 software. Difference among groups with One-way ANOVA and ambi-groups with SNK (q test), statistical significance was confirmed as P &lt; 0.05.
It was a experimental study. Forty-nine rabbits were used and divided into 5 groups: normal eyes without trabeculectomy group (group A), ocular hypertension (OHT) model without trabeculectomy group (group B), OHT model with trabeculectomy group (group C), normal eyes with trabeculectomy group (group D) and normal eyes with sham operation group (group E). Group A and B were as control. CTGF mRNA was detected by RT-PCR using blebs and tissues harvested at day 2, 5, 7, and 14. Three replicates of three blebs per time point in the right eyes were collected. The expression of CTGF protein was detected by immunohistochemistry and inflammatory histopathology was inspected by HE staining using the whole eyeball harvested in the left eyes.
In an experimental liver metastasis assay, Wnt5a-knockdown gastric cancer cells were injected into the spleens of nude mice. Microarray analyses were used to compare expression patterns between mouse fibroblast L cells that stably express wild-type and a mutant form of Wnt5a to investigate Wnt5a-dependent gene expression. The expression of genes found to be regulated by Wnt5a was investigated in cultured gastric cancer cells. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to measure levels of Wnt-regulated gene products in 153 gastric cancer samples.
Twelve healthy male volunteers (age range, 21-32 years) participated in the study. Negative emotion was induced using emotionally valent music. fMRI images were acquired during 2 experimental runs; throughout these, volunteers received randomized nonpainful and painful distentions to the esophagus during neutral and negative emotion. Subjective perception of each stimulus was acquired, as were mood ratings.
Cases of IBD-related and non-IBD-related TE treated with local thrombolysis were searched for in PubMed, reviewed, and grouped into anatomic areas. Outcomes in each anatomic area were compared between IBD and non-IBD patients. Due to the small number of IBD-related TE cases, a descriptive, not statistical, analysis was performed.
Thyrotropin (TSH) levels and antibodies to different autoantigens were analyzed in 217 patients with CHC (29.8% females) who were treated with CIFN induction therapy (27 or 18 mg q.d.).
Thirty-four patients with advanced HCC were treated with sorafenib regardless of liver function and prior anticancer therapy. Adverse events (AEs) were graded using Common Toxicity Criteria version 3.0, tumor response was assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors.
Through two parallel studies, we compared, using auto-administered questionnaires, the referred clinical behaviour on smoking of 66 health care professionals and the intervention received by 169 patients, with the clinical behaviour on hazardous drinking of other 38 professionals and other 118 patients from different hospital wards before and after attending a training in brief intervention on smoking cessation and hazardous alcohol drinking respectively.
We administered a neuropsychological battery to 30 patients with a diagnosis of cocaine abuse or cocaine dependence, and to 30 control participants with no history of drug abuse from the same social environment.
a sample of 43 patients was selected; inclusion criterion was being on the PTDO (treatment program with opiate derivatives) at the UAD (Drug-dependence unit) in Monforte de Lemos (Lugo-Spain). Demographic and use variables were analyzed. Data collection and subsequent analysis were carried out using the statistical program SPSS 12.0.
A sample of 131 non-clinical and 127 clinical individuals meeting the DSM-IV-TR substance abuse or dependence criteria were recruited.
Placental injection in twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome placentas treated with laser was performed by using colored dye.
This was a follow-up study to assess the neurologic, mental, and psychomotor development in cases with fetal cardiac arrhythmia.
Prospective observational study. Ninety women underwent cytologic testing and human papillomavirus genotyping at the follow-up visit after conization. Cones were retrospectively genotyped. A second cytologic follow-up was performed.
The study population consisted of all singleton deliveries in Denmark during a 9-year period, 1997-2005. Information on the deliveries that included different cervical procedures was obtained from various national registries. In all, 552,678 deliveries were eligible for analyses.
In this prospective cohort of 1248 nonpregnant women, vaginal and rectal swabs for GBS culture were obtained at enrollment and at three 4-month intervals. Generalized estimating equations were used to identify factors that are associated with colonization.
Main outcomes were failed glycemic screening (1-hour glucose result &gt;or= 140 mg/dL) with either 1 high value on 3-hour oral glucose tolerance testing (impaired glucose tolerance in pregnancy) or &gt;or= 2 high values on 3-hour oral glucose tolerance testing (gestational diabetes mellitus). We performed multinomial logistic regression to determine the odds of these glucose intolerance outcomes by quartile of gestational weight gain among 1960 women in Project Viva.
Beginning at 124 days, ewes received 2 intramuscular injections of either dexamethasone (2 x 12 mg, n = 10) or saline solution (2 x 2 mL, n = 12) 24 hours apart. Hypoxemia (1 hour) was induced 32 hours after the first injection (H1) and 3 days after the second (H2).
We conducted a retrospective cohort study of women who underwent placement of a CI cerclage.
Patients with late-onset preeclampsia underwent Doppler interrogation of the uterine arteries. Patients with abnormal uterine artery Doppler were compared with those who had a normal uterine artery Doppler.
This was a population based observational study. Data were prospectively collected by the Israel Neonatal Network between 1995 and 2005. Multivariable analyses identified independent risk factors for EOS.
We conducted a retrospective review of 335 consecutive women with stage II or worse vaginal prolapse who underwent Prolift (Ethicon, Somerville, NJ) between July 7, 2005 and Jan. 31, 2008.
Erythema and dryness of the vulva, introitus, vagina, and cervix were visualized and scored by each method in patients with and without vulvitis.
The total Western Australian population-based case-control study included 741 cases of cerebral palsy.
Computerized databases were used to identify relevant reports published between 1966 and 2007 reporting data on the accuracy of transvaginal sonography for diagnosing adenomyosis in women having hysterectomy. The presence or absence of adenomyosis was confirmed by histopathologic analysis of hysterectomy specimens. The total analysis included 14 trials with 1895 aggregate participants. Two authors independently assessed methodological quality and constructed tables for the assessment of diagnostic measures.
Intramembranous solute and water fluxes were measured in fetal sheep under basal conditions and after intraamniotic infusion of lactated Ringer's solution of 4 L/d for 3 days with and without lung liquid diversion.
The Mother-Infant Rapid Intervention at Delivery (MIRIAD) study was a prospective, multicenter study. Women were offered rapid and conventional human immunodeficiency virus testing if they presented to outpatient settings late in pregnancy with undocumented human immunodeficiency virus status. We compared median times between conventional and rapid testing and between rapid point-of-care and rapid laboratory-based testing.
Patients treated with EFRT, whole pelvis radiotherapy, and concurrent chemotherapy were analyzed for toxicity. Median prescribed dose to the whole pelvis was 45 Gy (45-50 Gy). Median prescribed dose to the paraaortic lymph nodes was 45 Gy (36-50). Thirty-five patients received cisplatin chemosensitization at a median dose of 40 mg/m(2) (40-51), with a median of 5 cycles (2-6).
The datasets of 414 urogynecologic patients were assessed in a retrospective study. Patients underwent an interview, clinical examination, and 3-/4-dimensional pelvic floor ultrasound. All analysis was performed offline using proprietary software. Hiatal dimensions and strain were measured.
Three hundred nine consecutive women who attended the women's health clinic for 3 months of the 2006 spring semester completed an anonymous self-administered questionnaire. Fisher exact and Student t tests were used to assess bivariate associations, and step-wise regression was used to determine independent associations.
The synthetic ETH-2 Gold human antibody phage display library was used to select scFv specific against CLDN3. scFv binding properties were analyzed by surface plasmon resonance; specificity was confirmed with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunofluorescence, and flow cytometry on a panel of ovarian and uterine serous carcinoma cell lines.
Cultured HUVECs were incubated with pooled plasma from third-trimester pregnant women with the addition (20 mg/mL) of MaCL with anti-beta-2 glycoprotein I activity that was obtained from patients with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), MaCL from an individual without APS, or from a control patient with immunoglobulin M without aCL activity. Supernatants were evaluated. Activated factors XII and VII, prothrombin-fragment 1 + 2, urokinase-type plasminogen activator (UPA), and differentiating 2 chain UPA were determined.
A follow-up study was monitored in association with HPV integration and viral load in 121 cervical samples with the use of multiplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
In a case-control study, head circumference was compared in 401 newborns with isolated CHD with 401 control subjects. Microcephaly was defined as head circumference below third percentile. The rates of microcephaly in multiple different categories of major CHD were ascertained along with logistic regression analyses to determine the specific types of cardiac defects that were significantly associated with microcephaly.
We genotyped 812 mothers in a case-control PTD study at Boston Medical Center who self-reported their ethnicity as "black." Regression analysis and Wilcoxon rank-sum test were applied to evaluate ancestral distribution and the association between genetic ancestry and PTD-related traits, as well as the potential confounding effect of population stratification.
The Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine members completed a survey in 2007 regarding screening tests and diagnostic procedures for Down syndrome. With the use of descriptive statistics, the chi(2) test, and the Student t test, responses from 2007 were compared with responses from a similar 2001 survey.
FHR patterns of 59 women whose babies were diagnosed with congenital hypothyroidism were retrospectively compared with tracings of 78 of their siblings. Tracings were interpreted during the first stage of labor. Multivariable analysis was used to control for confounders.
The 2002 National Center for Health Statistics Natality database was analyzed for fetal sex and twin gestations based on birth sex for MM and FF pairs (M, male; F, female). Multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression was applied to estimate the hazard ratio for PTB with adjustments for known risks.
We assessed associations of diet and physical activity with excessive GWG among 1388 women from the Project Viva cohort study.
One hundred sixteen cases of fetal CHD were identified at our institute between 2000-2007; 464 fetuses without CHD were used as controls. The incidences of abnormal FHR patterns and umbilical blood gases were compared.
We conducted a prospective observational study. Three-dimensional transperineal ultrasound was performed on all subjects. Primiparae were evaluated 24-72 hours after vaginal delivery. In all, 32 nulliparous gravidae (35-41 weeks) and 15 elective cesarean delivery primiparae were evaluated as methodological controls. We compared newborn head circumference (HC), birthweight, second stage duration, maternal age, baby sex, episiotomy, and instrumental delivery.
This was a prospective cohort study of 35,235 pregnancies. Coefficients for physiological and pathological variables were derived by backward multiple regression.
This was a retrospective analysis of a database from a US multicenter study. Pregnancy complications included threatened preterm labor, antepartum hemorrhage, pregnancy-induced hypertension, preeclampsia, stillbirth, and early neonatal death.
This was a population-based cohort study of 104,980 singleton, term births from 2000-2005.
This was a retrospective cohort study of 104,980 singleton, term births from the 2000-2005 Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (PRAMS).
We reviewed the charts of 1283 women who underwent repeat CS and 203 other women who underwent primary CS. Primary outcome measures were incidence and extent of adhesions, incision-to-delivery interval, and operating time.
Eligible women had at least 1 second trimester pregnancy loss due to cervical insufficiency, and had undergone at least 1 failed transvaginal cerclage. A prospective cohort of patients undergoing LC was compared with a historical control group of patients who had AC. A successful primary outcome was defined as delivery of a viable infant with neonatal survival.
Using software (BrainMaker for Windows, Version 3.0; California Scientific Software, Nevada City, CA), we trained an NN with 225 patients obtained by chart review and included for nulliparity, singleton vertex &gt; 36 weeks' gestation, and reassuring fetal heart rate on admission. Training inputs included several maternal and fetal clinical variables. Two logistic regression (LR) models using 225 and 600 patients (LR225 and LR600, respectively) were developed. The NN and LR models were tested for prediction of CD in a set of 100 patients not used for development.
Following a defined surgical curriculum, fellow-attending pairs operated on female hogs. A predetermined dataset was collected for each procedure.
The sample consisted of 16 maxillary first premolars from 8 patients who required bilateral extractions as part of their orthodontic treatment. In each subject, a fixed experimental appliance was placed on the maxillary teeth on each side, allowing a buccally directed force. The force was generated by a segmental wire of beta-titanium-molybdenum alloy. The first premolar on 1 side received a buccally directed continuous force, and the contralateral premolar received intermittent force. The initial force magnitude for both sides was 225 cN. After 14 days of initial continuous force, the intermittent force application was obtained with subsequently repeated periods until the end of the eighth week of a 3-day rest period followed by a 4-day force application period. Force levels were set to 225 cN at each patient visit. After the experimental period of 8 weeks, the teeth were extracted under a strict protocol to prevent root surface damage and analyzed with a microcomputed-tomography scan system, and specially designed software was used for direct volumetric measurements.
Nineteen adult patients with severe skeletal Class III malocclusion (Class III group) and 20 adults with normal occlusion (control group) participated in this study. The results of the Carlsson-Dent self-administered questionnaire (QUEST) and the frequency scale for the symptoms of GERD (FSSG) were compared between the 2 groups, along with occlusal contact area, maximal voluntary bite force, and salivary flow rate.
Two materials were tested, each in 2 thicknesses: Erkodur (Erkodent Erich Kopp GmbH, Pfalzgrafenweiler, Germany) 1.0 and 0.8 mm, and Biolon (Dreve Dentamid GmbH, Unna, Germany), 1.0 and 0.75 mm. For each material, 5 appliances were produced. To measure the forces applied, an isolated measuring tooth, part of a standardized resin model, was deflected in 0.05 degrees steps from 0 degrees to 0.42 degrees in the vestibular and palatine directions, after placing the respective appliance on the model. For statistical analysis, the force components Fx/tipping and Fz/intrusion at a displacement of +/- 0.151 mm from the incisor edge were selected. Means and standard deviations were calculated. The Wilcoxon 2-sample test for group pairings was used.
Two stainless steel models were designed and manufactured simulating flat and convex maxillary right buccal dental arches. Five stainless steel brackets from the maxillary incisor to the second premolar (slot size, 0.22 in, Victory, 3M Unitek, Monrovia, Calif) and a first molar tube were aligned and clamped on the metal model at equal distances of 6 mm. Four kinds of orthodontic wires were tested: (1) A. J. Wilcock Australian wire (0.016 in, G&amp;H Wire, Hannover, Germany); and (2) 0.016 x 0.022 in, (3) 0.018 x 0.022 in, and (4) 0.019 x 0.025 in (3M Unitek GmbH, Seefeld, Germany). Gray elastomeric modules (Power O 110, Ormco, Glendora, Calif) were used for ligation. Friction tests were performed in the wet state with artificial saliva lubrication and by pulling 5 mm of the whole length of the archwire. Six measurements were made from each bracket-wire combination, and each test was performed with new combinations of materials for both arch setups (n = 48, 6 per group) in a universal testing machine (crosshead speed: 20 mm/min).
Two sets of 25 alginate impressions were taken of patients who had a permanent Class I crowded dentition. Each impression was made into a plaster cast and a 3-dimensional virtual orthodontic model (OrthoCad, Cadent, Fairview, NJ). Measurements of tooth widths at their greatest mesiodistal dimension and arch length were recorded for both types of models. Tooth widths were measured on the plaster models with a digital caliper, and arch length was measured with a piece of brass wire and a millimeter ruler. The virtual models were measured by using OrthoCad's dedicated software. The space analysis measurements were calculated for both types of models, and the extrapolated amount of crowding for each type of model was accessed. All measurements were made by 2 examiners. The resulting values were compared with nonparametric statistics, and method errors were calculated.
Seventeen landmarks were identified on the skull. CBCT scans were then obtained, with 2 skull orientations during scanning. Twenty-nine interlandmark linear measurements were made directly on the skull and compared with the same measurements made on the CBCT scans. All measurements were made by 2 operators on 4 separate occasions.
Thirty human skulls were scanned with dental CBCT, and 3-dimensional reconstructions of the dentitions were generated. Ten measurements (overbite, overjet, maxillary and mandibular intermolar and intercanine widths, arch length available, and arch length required) were made directly on the dentitions of the skulls with a high-precision digital caliper and on the digital reconstructions with commercially available software. Reliability and accuracy were assessed by using intraclass correlation and paired Student t tests. A P value of &lt; or = 0.05 was used to assign statistical significance.
Ninety-seven titanium surgical miniscrews (diameter, 1.2 mm; length, 8-12 mm) were placed in the maxilla of 49 patients, at either a high level (nonkeratinized area) or a medium level (mucogingival junction), with the 1-stage or the 2-stage surgical technique. Survival time, event of each screw (survival or failure), and 7 clinical parameters were gathered for survival analysis. Age and latency factors were analyzed with t tests.
Mandibular asymmetry index measurements (condylar, ramal, and condylar-plus-ramal) were made on the panoramic radiographs of 126 subjects (51 boys, 75 girls). The study groups consisted of 46 unilateral (19 boys, 27 girls; mean age, 13.06 +/- 3.52 years) and 40 bilateral (16 boys, 24 girls; mean age, 12.72 +/- 3.22 years) posterior crossbite patients and a group of 40 subjects (16 boys, 24 girls; mean age, 14.43 +/- 3.05 years) with normal occlusion. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to determine possible statistically significant differences between the groups for condylar, ramal, and condylar-plus-ramal asymmetry index measurements at the 95% confidence interval.
We screened 133 patients with Class II Division 1 malocclusions. The subjects were divided into 3 bite-jumping groups: I, 49 subjects with bite jumping of &lt;7 mm; II, 44 subjects with bite jumping of 7.5 to 9.5 mm; and III, 40 subjects with bite jumping of &gt;9.5 mm. Only group I with small (S) and group III with large (L) bite jumping were considered. The average ages of the subjects in the 2 bite-jumping groups were 13.6 +/- 2.4 years in the S group and 14.7 +/- 4.7 years in the L group. The average treatment time with the Herbst/MB appliance was 19 months. Lateral headfilms were evaluated at 3 times: before Herbst treatment, after Herbst treatment, and after MB treatment.
Profile photographs and lateral cephalograms were available from 42 young white men, 29 with Class III malocclusion and 13 with Class I. A computer-based analysis was performed including hard-tissue variables on cephalograms and soft-tissue variables on photographs
The objective of this study was to establish a relationship between IGF-1 levels collected from blood-spot samples and hand-wrist radiographs at various skeletal stages. Eighty-four subjects (45 female, 39 male) between the ages of 5 and 25 were included in the study. Each subject had personal information, a hand-wrist radiograph, and a blood-spot sample collected on the same day.
During phase 1 treatment, 86 subjects were treated with a bionator, 93 were treated with headgear/biteplane, and 81 served as the observation group. For phase 2, all subjects were then treated with full orthodontic appliances. Arch dimensions were followed; maxillary and mandibular alginate impressions were taken at baseline, end of early Class II treatment or observation, beginning of fixed appliance treatment, end of orthodontic treatment, and approximately 3 years posttreatment. Alginate impressions were taken of each dental arch at each data collection point. These were poured in orthodontic stone, trimmed, and photocopied from the occlusal aspect. These images were then scanned and measured.
Fifteen rats were divided into 3 groups. Group I was the untreated controls; group II received a clear plastic appliance made from a model, with the maxillary left first molar repositioned mesially 0.5 mm from the origin; and group III had a closed-coil spring to move the molar mesially. Specimens were prepared in parasagittal sections, and changes in paradental tissues were evaluated on days 1, 4, and 7 by light microscopy.
Bovine teeth were stored in 6 storage media for 7 months before bonding: dry (no medium), filtered water, 10% formalin, 1% chloramine T, 10% chloramine T, isotonic saline solution, and 70% ethanol. These teeth were further subdivided into 2 groups; 1 group was rinsed with oil-free air and water spray before bonding orthodontic brackets, and the other group not rinsed. All specimens were tested in the shear-peel mode to failure.
Ten patients with bone markers placed in the maxilla and the mandible had their canines retracted over a 2-month period. Retraction was accomplished with beta-titanium alloy T-loop springs. Standardized 45 degrees oblique cephalograms where taken initially and every 28 days thereafter. The radiographs were scanned and digitized twice (the average was used for the analyses). The radiographs were superimposed by using the bone markers and oriented on the functional occlusal plane. Paired t tests were used to compare side and jaw effects.
Cone-beam computed tomography scans were taken before and after Class III malocclusion orthopedic treatment with miniplates. Three observers independently constructed 18 3D virtual surface models from cone-beam computed tomography scans of 3 patients. Separate 3D models were constructed for soft-tissue, cranial base, maxillary, and mandibular surfaces. The anterior cranial fossa was used to register the 3D models of before and after treatment (about 1 year of follow-up).
Three sets, each consisting of a maxillary and a mandibular appliance, of as-received aligners were immersed in normal saline solution for 2 months. Samples of eluents were diluted to 3 concentrations (5%, 10%, and 20% vol/vol) and tested for cytotoxicity on human gingival fibroblasts and estrogenicity by measuring their effect on the proliferation of the estrogen-responsive MCF-7 breast cancer cells. All assays were repeated 4 times for each maxillary and mandibular set, and the results were analyzed with 2-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with appliance and concentration serving as predictors at the .05 level of significance; differences among groups were investigated with the Tukey test.
Thirty dry skulls were imaged with cone-beam computed tomography technology. Coronal slices were generated on which overall bone depth and cortical bone thickness were measured at 4 levels and 34 palatal placement sites. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used for data analysis.
A total of 40 undergraduate students were divided into 2 groups. Group A was taught according to the conventional teaching method of theory and practical classes, and group B was taught with an LVO. The students' learning performance was tested by using a multiple-choice questionnaire that covered the knowledge and understanding of cephalometry and by the index of correct landmark identification. The Student t test was used to check statistical differences between the 2 groups. LVO usability was evaluated with a questionnaire based on the system usability scale.
In 38 stable patients with CF and 20 matched control subjects, we measured fat-free mass (FFM), inspiratory muscle strength, diaphragm thickness, quadriceps and biceps strength and cross-sectional area, and circulating levels of leukocytes, C-reactive protein, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor necrosis factor-alpha soluble receptors, and immunoglobulin G.
RNA was extracted from 23 stable IPF lungs, 8 IPF lungs with acute exacerbation (IPF-AEx), and 15 control lungs and used for hybridization on Agilent gene expression microarrays. Functional analysis of genes was performed with Spotfire and Genomica. Gene validations for MMP1, MMP7, AGER, DEFA1-3, COL1A2, and CCNA2 were performed by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry and in situ terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase dUTP nick end-labeling assays were performed on the same tissues used for the microarray. ELISA for alpha-defensins was performed on plasma from control subjects, patients with stable IPF, and patients with IPF-AEx.
Fifty-seven infants (median age, 3.6 mo) with CF underwent bronchoalveolar lavage and chest computed tomography (CT) using a three-slice inspiratory and expiratory protocol.
This study was a population-based, case-control study. Cases were adults 18 to 27 years of age who were hospitalized for a respiratory illness from 1998 to 2007 within Washington State who could be linked to a Washington State birth certificate for the years 1980 to 1988. Four control subjects, frequency matched by birth year, were randomly selected from Washington State birth certificates for each case patient. Control subjects who died before age 18 were excluded.
Six weeks after myocardial infarction (chronic heart failure model) rat lung composition, both gross and histologic; air and saline mechanics; surfactant production; and immunological mediators were examined.
AECs were obtained from subjects with asthma (n = 8) and normal subjects without asthma (n = 10). Monolayer and air-liquid interface-AEC (ALI-AEC) cultures were treated with transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 (10 ng/ml) for 72 hours and assayed for mesenchymal and epithelial markers using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, confocal microscopy, and immunoblot. The involvement of BMP-7, Smad3, and MAPK-mediated signaling were also evaluated.
PMN were isolated from sputum and blood of subjects with and without CF or non-CF bronchiectasis for phagocytic assays. HNP isolated from patients with CF were used to stimulate healthy PMN followed by phagocytic tests.
We included data from the 1996 to 2002 waves of the Health and Retirement Study, a biennial nationally representative survey. We studied respondents who completed cognitive testing in 1996 and at least one subsequent survey, and excluded those with unknown history of COPD. Clinical history of COPD was based on self-report; severity was categorized based on use of oxygen or disease-related activity limitations. Our primary outcome was cognitive performance, measured using a validated 35-point scale. We examined the effect of COPD on cognition using multivariable mixed linear models accounting for repeated measurements, adjusted for sociodemographic and clinical characteristics.
From infected airways of six patients with CF, 25 P. aeruginosa clones were isolated during a period of up to 16.3 years and genotypically and phenotypically characterized. Virulence of the 8 early, 6 intermediate, and 11 late CF isolates and 5 environmental strains was assessed by monitoring acute mortality versus survival and P. aeruginosa chronic persistence versus lung clearance in mice of different genetic backgrounds, including CF mice.
A total of 354 cases diagnosed with calcium urolithiasis and 354 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were recruited from Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital between June 2003 and February 2007. All subjects completed a detailed questionnaire survey and provided blood and urine samples for biochemical evaluation.
This study uses data from a fall risk factor screening and modification trial in community-dwelling Canadian male veterans of World War II or the Korean War, with falls ascertained prospectively using calendars and physical activity (PA) measured at baseline with a single global question. The effect of PA on falling was assessed using eight different multivariable regression models, with three models treating falling as a non-recurrent event whereas the other five models regard falls as recurrent events.
Mothers of vaccinated and unvaccinated 11- to 17-year-old girls seen during preventive care visits in outpatient family medicine or pediatric clinics underwent an audiotaped structured telephone interview that used open-ended questions to assess the reasons underlying maternal decisions about HPV vaccination. Qualitative methods categorized maternal responses into themes.
We conducted a nested case-control study of 143 primary incident lung cancer cases matched to 447 cancer-free controls. Genotyping was carried out using a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay. Conditional logistic regression models were used to estimate odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI).
The current study investigated associations between urinary cadmium and the prevalence of elevated blood CRP (&gt; or = 2.2 mg/L) and fibrinogen (&gt; or = 10.35 micromol/L) using data from a sample of 6497 participants aged 40-79 in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Logistic regression model was used to investigate existing associations while adjusting for confounding variables.
TDCJ decedent data were linked with Texas Vital Statistics multiple-cause-of-death data. Crude annual HCV death rates, age- and race-adjusted summary rates, and average annual percent changes were estimated. The proportion of deaths due to chronic liver disease/cirrhosis, liver cancer, hepatitis B, and HIV for which HCV was identified as an intervening or contributing cause of death was calculated.
Seventy-nine middle-aged white women completed seven 24HRs over a 14-day period, during which energy expenditure (EE) was determined by the doubly labeled water method (DLW). Mean daily intakes were compared to DLW-derived EE using paired t tests. Linear mixed models were used to evaluate the effect of call sequence and day of the week on 24HR-derived energy intake while adjusting for education, relative body weight, social desirability, and an interaction between call sequence and social desirability.
From 2006-2007, we conducted a population-based case-control study of familial KBD in Linyou County, Shaanxi Province, China. Study subjects included 212 case families (1,951 individuals) and 212 control families (1,897 individuals). Using conditional logistic regression to analyze case-control data and second-order generalized estimating equation (GEE2) to examine family data, we adjusted for age and gender in all marginal regression analyses.
Logistic regression was used to analyze computer-assisted telephone-interview surveys of 1,596 randomly selected Hispanic residents of 12 high AIDS-incidence ZIP-code areas.
Multigroup confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was performed, specifying a five-factor model across four race/ethnicity groups (White Non-Hispanic, Hispanic, Asian/Pacific Islander, Black Non-Hispanic). Multigroup structural equation models were proposed in order to compare the factor structure across the four race/ethnicity subpopulations. The analyses were based on 5,490 children recruited from clinic, school, and community populations.
Risk of incident cKS (N=141) compared with population-based KSHV seropositive controls (N=123) was estimated for residential exposure to four types of soil, categorized with maps from the European Soil Database and direct surveying. Questionnaire data provided covariates.
The modifications taking place following incubation of the fibres in simulated phagolysosomal fluids have been measured on balangeroite, on one pure chrysotile sample (Val Malenco), on one chrysotile from Balangero with some associated balangeroite, and on two tremolite samples.
An occupational hygienist and a field scientist visited the two UK suppliers and 20 out of the 25 workplaces known to be using MbOCA in the UK during 2005 and 2006. They collected air samples, surface wipes, gloves, and urine samples and made observations to assess exposure and the adequacy of controls. All samples were analysed for MbOCA and urine samples were additionally analysed for isocyanate metabolites. A statistical analysis was made of the results.
In this paper, we propose a general framework of sampling strategies on sample size requirement together with the number of repeated measurements using the mixed-effects generalized linear model (GLM). As illustrative examples, we discuss sampling strategies separately under the log-normal assumption for hypotheses testing on (i) mean exposure differences of multiple worker groups and (ii) presence of a long-term exposure trend.
A total of 408 patients (221 treatment-naive) treated with pegylated interferon-alpha2b and ribavirin were included. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA was measured at baseline, 4 weeks and 12 weeks. RVR was defined as undetectable HCV RNA at 4 weeks and EVR as &gt;/=2 log(10) decrease in HCV RNA at 12 weeks. The additive value of RVR on predicting sustained virological response (SVR) was assessed with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.
A total of 25 patients with chronic HCV infection were enrolled in this study. All patients received ribavirin for 4 weeks during monotherapy; subsequently, interferon-alpha2b was additionally given as combined therapy. Patients were divided into two groups according to virological response. A rapid viral responder (RVR) was defined as a patient in whom HCV RNA became undetectable within 4 weeks after combination therapy. The changes of the T-helper (Th)1/Th2 subset of peripheral blood CD4(+) T-cells, serum cytokine levels and the alignment of the interferon sensitivity-determining region (ISDR) during ribavirin monotherapy were analysed by flow cytometry, ELISAs and sequencing methods.
This was an observational cohort. Genotypic resistance testing was performed on treatment-naive individuals and those failing first-line ART (confirmed HIV-1 RNA&gt;1,000 copies/ml) from public sector clinics in Cape Town (2002-2007). Resistance profiles and mutations relative to timing of known virological failure were examined.
First, we analysed the apoptotic pathway in allicin or prosultiamine treatment against an HTLV-I-infected T-cell line (HCT-1), derived from an HAM/TSP patient, by flow cytometry and western blot. Second, we evaluated the effect of targeting HTLV-I-infected cells in a prosultiamine in vitro treatment and in a clinical trial in HAM/TSP patients by quantitative PCR analysis of HTLV-I proviral load.
Spot urine protein to creatinine (P/Cr) ratios, an accepted measure of quantitative daily proteinuria, were measured annually since 2002 in participants of the AIDS Clinical Trials Group Longitudinal Linked Randomized Trials cohort. We used linear regression models with general estimating equations to identify factors associated with the abnormal P/Cr thresholds of &gt;/=0.2 and &gt;/=1.0.
We included patients infected between 1996 and 2006, with a plasma sample obtained &lt;18 months after seroconversion and prior to antiretroviral therapy initiation. Reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease sequences were determined by direct population sequencing from plasma samples. Genotypic resistance was interpreted with the Agence Nationale de Recherches sur le SIDA et les Hépatites Virales 2006 algorithm and International AIDS Society-USA list. Phylogenetic analysis (neighbour-joining and maximum likelihood methods) of RT sequences was used to determine the HIV-1 subtype and the interrelationship between sequences.
A total of 60 3TC-experienced patients were treated with (or switched to) ADV monotherapy (30 patients) or ADV+3TC combination therapy (30 patients), and followed for at least 12 months. In all patients the hepatitis B virus reverse transcriptase (RT) region was amplified and directly sequenced before initiating ADV. The RT sequence was reevaluated for virological breakthrough patients and phenotypic analysis was performed for several patients.
We estimated the incidence rate of LTFU in 1,007 HIV-infected patients under care from January 1997 to December 2006. We then investigated potential risk factors for LTFU at inclusion and during follow-up.
A total of 471 treatment-naive patients with histologically proven chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection (106 with cirrhosis; 185 with HCV genotype 1 [HCV-1], 157 with HCV genotype 2 [HCV-2], 92 with HCV genotype 3 [HCV-3] and 37 with HCV genotype 4 [HCV-4]) were consecutively treated with PEG-IFN-alpha2b 1.5 microg weekly and weight-based RBV.
In this open-labelled prospective study, 45 treatment-naive chronic hepatitis B patients treated with 30 mg clevudine once daily for 12 months were monitored at baseline and at 3-month intervals during treatment.
The dynamics of wild-type HCV genotype 1 in patients dosed with TVR monotherapy (n=36) and TVR plus pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN)-alpha2a (n=8) were quantified using a biphasic viral dynamic model.
Envelope clones, representing the viral quasi-species present in the longitudinal follow-up of a patient who failed ENF-based salvage therapy, were tested for ENF susceptibility and Env-related replicative capacity. ENF resistance mutations in HR1 were introduced or back-mutated in representative clones to evaluate their phenotypic effect in different genetic contexts.
HIV type-1-infected children aged 6 months to 18 years, who were virologically suppressed on an LPV/r-containing regimen, were eligible. Treatment 1 consisted of once-daily LPV/r 460/115 mg/m(2), plus two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). Treatment 2 consisted of twice-daily LPV/r 230/57.5 mg/m(2) plus two NRTIs. Patients were randomized either to start with treatment 1 followed by treatment 2 or vice versa. Full pharmacokinetic profiles were analysed for lopinavir and ritonavir with a validated HPLC tandem mass spectrometry assay.
All cases of sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (SAHS) (apnea-hypopnea index [AHI]#&gt;10/h) diagnosed using overnight polysomnography during the period 2004 to 2006 were analyzed retrospectively. Those cases in which the ratio of AHI during REM sleep to AHI during non-REM sleep was more than 2 were classified as REM-specific SDB. We recorded the following data: clinical signs and symptoms related to SAHS, PSG results, cardiovascular risk factors, and previous cardiovascular events. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify predictors of REM-specific SDB and to analyze the possible interactions between variables.
From March 1993 through December 2007, we studied 1277 patients, of whom 150 (137 men and 13 women; age range, 28-81 years) presented tumors classified as cT3 because of chest wall invasion on the basis of imaging studies.
All patients diagnosed with emphysema who underwent lung transplantation between March 1997 and June 2008 were included. The association between different study variables and early death and death at 1 year and 5 years was studied. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to analyze survival. A logistic regression model was used to study the association between early death and variables with a trend towards significance (P&lt;.2) in the univariate analysis. The risk factors for mortality at 1 year and 5 years were analyzed by a Cox regression model.
We measured forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1)), FEV(1)/FVC, residual volume, total lung capacity, DLCO, carbon monoxide transfer coefficient (KCO) and standard anthropometric parameters in 28 patients with a FEV(1)/FVC ratio of &lt;70%. We then compared tidal volume measurements from a previously validated EIT unit and a standard pneumotachometer.
Case-control.
Laboratory.
Forty-three patients with chronic MLBP (25 instability, 18 noninstability) and 39 asymptomatic controls.
Not applicable.
Surface electromyography was used to measure onset time of 10 trunk muscles during a self-perturbation task. Trunk muscle onset latency relative to the anterior deltoid was calculated and the number of muscles functioning in feedforward determined.
Crossover trial.
Biomechanics laboratory.
Convenience sample of 53 ambulatory older adults with minimal wheelchair experience (65-87y); men, n=20; women, n=33.
Participants propelled 4 different wheelchair configurations over 4 surfaces: tile, low carpet, high carpet, and an 8% grade ramp (surface, chair order randomized). Chair configurations included (1) unweighted chair with an anterior axle position, (2) 9.05 kg weighted chair with an anterior axle position, (3) unweighted chair with a posterior axle position (Delta0.08 m), and (4) 9.05 kg weighted chair with a posterior axle position (Delta0.08 m). Weight was added to a titanium folding chair, simulating the weight difference between very light and depot wheelchairs. Instrumented wheels measured propulsion kinetics.
Average self-selected velocity, push frequency, stroke length, peak resultant and tangential force.
Cross-sectional cohort study.
Nonclinical.
Three groups of randomly selected community dwelling male U.S. Army Vietnam-era veterans: healthy control (n=3218), those injured in a motor vehicle collision (MVC) but without a head injury (MVC injury control; n=548), and those who had an MTBI (n=278).
None.
Prevalence of psychiatric diagnoses, physical, cognitive, and emotional symptoms, and course of PTSD across time.
Placebo-controlled double-blind randomized study.
Three clinical centers involved in neuromuscular disorders.
Ambulatory patients (N=112), 56 per group, with genetically confirmed FSHD, age 18 to 60 years.
Salbutamol (sustained released formulation) administered orally at a daily dose of 16 mg using a periodic dosage regimen (3 wks on, 1 wk off).
Muscle strength was assessed with quantitative muscle testing (QMT), manual muscle testing (MMT), and timed motor tests. Patients were evaluated at baseline, and 3 and 6 months later. Plasma drug assays were carried out at each visit.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel study.
Sixteen academic and clinical sites in 13 states.
Subjects (N=225) with DPN stage II or III were randomly assigned to use identical devices generating PEMF or sham (placebo) 2 h/d to feet for 3 months.
Nerve conduction testing was performed serially.
Pain reduction scores using a visual analog scale (VAS), the Neuropathy Pain Scale (NPS), and the Patient's Global Impression of Change (PGIC). A subset of subjects underwent serial 3-mm punch skin biopsies from 3 standard lower limb sites for epidermal nerve fiber density (ENFD) quantification.
Secondary data analysis.
Inpatient rehabilitation facilities (N=864) across the United States.
Patients (N=135,097) who received medical rehabilitation for stroke in 2002-2003.
None.
Length of stay, FIM instrument, and discharge setting. Diabetes status was assigned to 1 of 3 categories: tier (increases reimbursement), nontier (no reimbursement effect), and no diabetes.
Retrospective review of cases.
A private neuropsychologic clinic in a southeastern metropolitan area.
Consecutive patients (N=508) referred for psychologic evaluation related to chronic pain over a 10-year period (1995-2005).
Not applicable.
Prevalence of malingering was examined using 2 published clinical diagnostic systems (Malingered Pain-Related Disability and Malingered Neurocognitive Dysfunction) as well as statistical estimates based on well validated indicators of malingering.
Cross-sectional study.
National Rehabilitation Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
Patients (N=255; 178 men, 77 women) who were disabled for at least 3 months because of acquired brain injury, spinal cord injury, other neurologic condition, or lower-limb amputation.
None.
Laboratory investigations including intact parathyroid hormone, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD), and sex hormones; and BMD of lumbar spine and at least 1 hip, measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry and expressed as T scores and z scores.
Case-control.
Biodynamics research laboratory.
Subjects with ankle OA (n=8; 4 males, 4 females) were matched to healthy controls (n=8; 4 males, 4 females).
Not applicable.
Mechanical joint stability was assessed with an instrumented ankle arthrometer. Static balance was measured using a force platform during a double-legged stance. Isometric ankle/foot complex strength in the sagittal and frontal plane was assessed with a handheld dynamometer. Last, subjective level of function was assessed using the foot and ankle disability index.
Prospective cohort study.
Biodynamics research laboratory.
Subjects with an acute lateral ankle sprain (n=16; 7 men, 9 women; age, 19.5+/-0.7y; mass, 64.6+/-8.1 kg; height, 171.9+/-9.6 cm) and healthy controls (n=16; 7 men, 9 women; age, 20.4+/-1.7y; mass, 76.9+/-11.1 kg; height, 176.5+/-11.1 cm) participated.
Not applicable.
Subjects with acute ankle sprains were tested 3 days after injury and again 8 weeks later. Anterior and posterior displacement (mm) and inversion and eversion rotation ( degrees ) were measured with an instrumented arthrometer. For each dependent variable, a 2 x 2 x 2 repeated-measures multivariate analysis of variance was performed.
Sequential cross-sectional analysis of complex probabilistic survey data with multivariable logistic regression analysis.
National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey and National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey 1999 to 2005.
Visits to ambulatory care physicians in the United States from 1999 to 2005 with the reason for visit being a musculoskeletal complaint.
Not applicable.
Prescribing of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, nonselective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsNSAIDs), opiate analgesics, nonnarcotic analgesics, and adjuvant analgesic medications for visits related to musculoskeletal complaints.
A randomized, 3 x 2 factorial design: orthoses (no orthosis, wearing a custom-made orthosis, wearing a commercial orthosis) and tasks (typing, using the mouse).
Laboratory for biomechanics and rehabilitation.
Healthy university students (N=23), ranging from 18 to 26 years of age.
Study volunteers performed standardized tasks such as typing and using the mouse while wearing 1 of 2 types of wrist orthoses or no orthosis.
We used surface electromyography and considered 100% maximum voluntary contraction to represent the amplitude of electromyographic activity.
Pretest-posttest.
University research laboratory.
Healthy young women (n=20; age, 23.0+/-1.5y; height, 166.52+/-4.5 cm; mass, 65.33+/-10.5 kg) and community-dwelling older women (n=20; age, 71.65+/-7.2y; height, 162.31+/-3.8 cm; mass, 71.16+/-11.6 kg) without a fall history.
Measurements of control of single-limb balance before and after fatiguing the hip abductors of the dominant leg.
Performance on 3 clinical assessments of control of balance: the modified Functional Reach Test in the forward, left, and right directions; the Lower-Extremity Reach Test in forward and lateral directions; and the Single-Limb Stance Time Test (SLSTT).
Longitudinal study.
University hospital laboratory.
Typically developing infants (N=33; mean +/- SD age at entry in the study, 152.4+/-17.6d).
Not applicable.
Infants were tested twice in 1 week at each of the 4 months of the study. Sitting COP data were recorded for 3 trials at each session (2 each month within 1 week). The linear COP parameters of root mean square and range of sway for both the anterior-posterior and the medial-lateral directions, and the sway path, were calculated. The nonlinear parameters of approximate entropy, Lyapunov exponent, and correlation dimension for both directions were also calculated. Intrasession and intersession reliability was quantified by the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC).
Pre-postoperative follow-up with a 12-week intervention and 12-week washout period after intervention.
A human performance laboratory with 6 camera video motion capture systems for testing.
Eleven children (age 5-13y, average 8y) with SDCP, 8 children (age 5-13y, average 8y) without disabilities.
Hippotherapy intervention performed at 3 therapeutic horseback riding centers.
Video motion capture using surface markers collecting data at 60 Hz, a mechanical barrel to challenge trunk and head stability, and functional reach/targeting test on static surface.
An ethnographic study involving: Field observations: 40 hours, over 4 weeks, daily activities, 7 interprofessional meetings, 3 care planning meetings, 1 business meeting, and 3 family meetings; Individual observations: a physiotherapist, an occupational therapist, and a social worker individually observed for 45 minutes to an hour; and Interviews: 19 participants, 11 professions, 27 informal, 5 formal interviews. Data analysis consisted of an iterative process involving coding field notes for themes by 3 members of the research team by qualitative analysis software.
Single inpatient spinal cord rehabilitation care unit in a Canadian urban academic rehabilitation hospital.
Purposive convenience sample of core team, more than 40 professionals: physiatrist, over 21 nurses, 3 physiotherapists, 3 occupational therapists, 2 social workers, chaplain, psychologist, therapeutic recreationist, program assistant, program manager, pharmacist, advanced practice leader, 6 students (1 pharmacy, 4 registered nurse, and 1 psychology), and on-site community organizations. After university and hospital ethical approvals, all staff members were recruited to participate in the study.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
A retrospective cohort study.
An acute hospital rehabilitation center in Singapore.
Stroke patients (N=491) admitted between March 2005 and December 2006.
None.
Rehabilitation LOS was calculated as the total number of rehabilitation days before discharge. We measured the functional status of patients by using the Functional Independence Measure (FIM).
Observational cohort.
The NeuroRecovery Network (NRN), a specialized network of treatment centers providing standardized, activity-based therapy for patients with SCI.
Patients (N=97) with American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale C or D SCI who were enrolled in the NRN between March 1, 2005, and June 12, 2007.
All enrolled patients received 3 to 5 locomotor training sessions a week, according to NRN protocol, and were periodically evaluated for progress on functional outcome measurements.
Scores on the items of the BBS, six-minute walk test distances, ten-meter walk test speeds, and scores on the SCI Functional Ambulation Index. Temporal rates of change of the BBS items were examined with a principal components and correlation analysis.
Pretest-posttest repeated-measures.
Locomotor laboratory.
Motor incomplete SCI (n=12; mean, 44+/-16y); noninjured subjects (n=11; mean, 30.8+/-8.3y).
All subjects received each type of training on 2 separate days.
Paired reflex depression at different interstimulus intervals (10 s, 1 s, 500 ms, 200 ms, and 100 ms) was measured before and after both types of training.
Descriptive study.
Three Dutch spinal cord injury facilities.
Six physical therapists, 6 occupational therapists, and 3 sports therapists.
Not applicable.
A 4- or 5-digit code was used to score videotaped interventions on 2 occasions in terms of level, category, and type of intervention. We examined the percentage of correctly assigned interventions (agreement between the researcher and the participants), agreement between the first and second measurements (intrarater reliability), and agreement between the therapists of the same discipline (interrater reliability).
Cross-sectional, observational.
Community.
Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging participants (N=102), aged 22.2 to 94.1 years, were studied.
Not applicable.
Surface-represented motor unit size and firing rate were collected from the vastus medialis during knee extension at 10%, 20%, 30%, and 50% of each subject's maximum isometric voluntary contraction (MVC).
Retrospective analysis.
Boston Veterans Affairs Healthcare System.
Consecutive SCI participants (N=112) who were followed at this institution until death between 1999 and 2005 at an average age of 71 years, a duration of paralysis of 31 years, with a tetraplegic level in 62%, and no useful motor function in 84%.
Not applicable.
PE, as a cause of RBBB, was diagnosed by autopsy, a source of thromboembolism, imaging, or other ECG signs of PE. Chronic obstructive lung disease was diagnosed by pulmonary function tests and myocardial infarction by ECG or echocardiogram.
Twenty patients were treated with 100-150mCi of iodine-131 on an out-patient basis. Family members dosimetry (n = 27) and potential doses inside the house were measured with thermoluminescent dosimeters. Surface contamination and radioactive wastes were also monitored.
We quantified GIPR and LHCGR expressions using real time PCR in 20 patients with adrenocortical hyperplasia (seven with AIMAH, five with PPNAD, and eight with DAHCD). Normal adrenals tissues were used as control and the relative expression was compared with beta-actin.
Thirty-five non-obese women (NO), age 35-68 years were studied, and divided into two groups according to the presence of hypertension (BP &gt;or= 140 x 90 mmHg) (HT = hypertensive; NT = normotensive). Leptin measurement and oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to assess insulin were performed in these patients. A CT-scan was used to evaluate visceral (VF) and subcutaneous abdominal fat (SCF). The Central fat distribution index (CDI) was proposed to evaluate the impact of subcutaneous abdominal fat on central fat distribution in hypertensive patients.
The plaque index (PI), sites with bleeding on probing (BOP), probing depth (PD) and clinical attachment level (CAL) were evaluated in all occlusion permanent teeth of 168 non smoking type 1 diabetic children, 13 +/- 3.5 years old. The PI and BOP evaluations were also performed in deciduous teeth.
84 patients with T1D and 37 controls were evaluated. Anthropometric data was collected to calculate BMI and assessment of BC was performed through the methods of skinfold thickness (SF), bipolar (BI) and tetrapolar (TT) bioelectrical impedance. The agreement between the scores of each method was determined by Kappa (K) coefficient.
The presence of HLA DQB1, DQA1 and DRB1 alleles, as well as the -2221 MspI polymorphism in the insulin gene and 49 A/G in the CTLA-4 gene were identified by the 'Time-resolved fluorometer' technique after hybridization with probes labeled with Eu (III) / Sm (III) and Tb (III).
A prospective study of 21 asymptomatic acromegalic patients, 12 male and 9 female, average age 49, who underwent computed tomographic colonography and conventional colonoscopy. Computed tomographic colonography was performed with a GE Helical Multislice Computed Tomography Apparatus. Conventional colonoscopy was performed in the same day, without previous knowledge of the computed tomographic colonography diagnostics. The study evaluated the capacity of computed tomographic colonography to detect patients with colorectal polyps and identify each colorectal lesion described by the colonoscopy.
After colonoscopy, the individuals were distributed into two groups: patients with colon adenomas (cases) and patients whose colons were normal (controls). The groups were similar regarding age and gender. The individuals of both groups were subjected to a dosage of IgG antibody against H. pylori. The dosage was applied according to the solid phase, chemiluminescent immunometric assay. The chi-square test was used to analyze the data.
In a prospective study, 111 patients who presented smooth mucosa without enanthema in the endoscopic exam of the terminal ileum were selected. Biopsies of the ileal mucosa of such patients were performed, being the slides routinely examined and reviewed afterwards.
A total of 2,177 consecutive colonoscopies were analyzed and 105 images were chosen for analysis, divided into 37 hyperplastic lesions, 42 adenomas and 26 carcinomas. Specific digital morphometry was used, to measure the diameter and area of the pits from hyperplastic lesions, adenomatous and carcinomatous lesions, always comparing them with the normal mucosa surrounding pits.
Seventy five patients with 157 colorectal lesions were prospectively evaluated. The capillary pattern, as well as the pit pattern according to the Kudo classification, of colorectal lesions were evaluated by means of the FICE system. Absence and presence of meshed capillary networks were labeled as non-neoplastic and neoplastic lesions, respectively. Afterwards, indigo carmine 0.8% was instilled and a new evaluation of the pit pattern was carried out.
Specimens from 40 patients with GIST were assessed for immunohistochemical expression of Ki67 and p53. The tumors were divided according the risk of recurrence in two groups: I with high or intermediate risk and; II with low or very low risk.
Retrospective study of six patients who presented voluminous hernias of the abdominal wall and were operated after installation of a pneumoperitoneum. The procedure was performed by placing a catheter in the abdominal cavity at the level of the left hypochondrium with ambient air insufflation for 10 to 15 days.
Biopsies from 86 patients with endoscopic evidence of Barrett's esophagus were evaluated. The biopsies were stained for cytokeratin 7 and 20.
It is a cohort study, where the data of the coinfected patients treated with IFN+RBV (before 2002) or PEG+RBV (from 2002) during 48 weeks in the Brazilian Health Ministry program were reviewed. Demographic characteristics were evaluated (age, gender and weight), CD4 cell count and histopathology - inflammatory activity (A) and fibrosis grade, by METAVIR classification. The significance level adopted was 5%.
The study was cross-sectional, prospective and descriptive, including 45 patients (16 months-16.9 years) who had undergone Nissen fundoplication in a school hospital. Twenty six patients (57.8%) were neurologically impaired. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed in order to determine fundoplication integrity, endoscopic and histopathological esophageal condition. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopies were performed from 12 up to 30 months after surgery.
Defecation data of 57 children aged 6.0-40.7 mo were obtained by maternal recall (questionnaire on predominant stool characteristics) and by record (1,934 defecations registered prospectively at home and in the nursery). The bowel habit was classified according to stool frequency and proportion of stool characteristics (soft, hard and/or runny). Two criteria were used to classify recorded data, since the cutoff point for hard stools to identify constipation is undefined in children: predominant criterion and adult criterion, respectively with &gt;50% and &gt;25% of stools with altered consistency. Bowel habit categories were: adequate, constipation, functional diarrhea and 'other bowel habit'. Nonparametric statistics, and the Kappa index for agreement between recalled and recorded bowel habit, were used.
A MEDLINE search (1978-2007) was conducted using the terms 'liver transplantation', 'pregnancy', 'immunosuppressive agents', 'sexual function'. Reviews, retrospective series, long-term clinical follow-up of case series and original articles containing basic scientific observations were included.
A review of the international literature was undertaken in order to determine the elements of collective and mass trauma studies which may have relevance for Indigenous communities in Australia.
The research project used a mixture of quantitative and qualitative research methods. It included a questionnaire, interviews, workshop and a focus group.
A systematic review was undertaken of the quantitative literature relating to the mental health problems of Indigenous people in custody in Australia.
Cognitive assessments were conducted at fortnightly intervals for 2 months and again at 6 and 12 months among a group of Indigenous students from a boarding school in the Northern Territory. These students were to be the healthy control group in a long-term study of substance abuse. Recruitment and attrition rates were reviewed and related challenges for assessing participants were identified.
A comparison was made of key project elements with the principles outlined in existing ethical guidelines, outlining the concrete issues that need to be confronted in practice.
A collaborative research strategy that has become known as the Priority Driven Research (PDR) Partnership emerged through literature review, consultations, Family Wellbeing Program delivery with community groups and activities in two discrete Indigenous communities. Progress to date on three of the four components of the strategy is described.
Data was derived from quarterly reflective PAR sessions with men's and youth workers and steering committee members, interviews with workers, and focus groups with young people. The data was coded and categorized, with five themes identified.
The process of developing and implementing the project is described. The outcome is evaluated by means of qualitative feedback from community members and participants.
A 2-day hui (meeting) was held with members of the team and a facilitator, Whaea Moe Milne. Review of background national epidemiological data, local data, information from community, carer and tangata whaiora (consumer) stakeholders and the existing He Kakano Model of Care was undertaken. Use of tikanga (Māori protocol and practices) was evident throughout the hui.
Within the context of an honours thesis project, this research assessed the process and the effects of these traditional activities on a group of First-Nation youth. The evaluation used a mixed methodology consisting of two self-esteem scales and participatory observation. The results of this evaluative study show that this type of traditional activity is an innovative tool to increase cultural pride, foster pro-social behaviour and empower First-Nation youth.
A five stage action research method following the Susman and Evered Model of Change was implemented for this research with four distinct cycles completed.
Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) training was provided to AEAs and knowledge and skills pre-training were compared to 6-months post-training.
Five remote hamlets in East Kwaio, Malaita Province were visited in early 2008. Interviews were undertaken with 20 people with a history of buru spirit possession and 30 of their family members.
Twelve Papua New Guinean nationals engaged in health promotion participated in the workshop. Participants were invited to reflect on the potential application of the theatre forms for their own health promotion practice. The workshop was qualitatively evaluated through a focus group at the conclusion of the workshop.
Semiotics provides a theoretical frame for the interdisciplinary analysis of research on cultural competency, especially regarding recent studies on "cultural intelligence", performance and creativity.
Regular whole tribe gatherings 'in the circle' combined with mentoring 'aunties and uncles'. By sharing stories and giving personal feedback on their progress, participants developed skills and confidence in self expression. Relating to each other and the group, and sharing creative expressions (group craft activities, dancing, small group performing) added depth to the experience of participants. Stories and celebrations were filmed, along with meetings to discuss progress and reflect on how to improve our process of sharing together. Ways for individuals to work on improving their life experiences were shared across the group, which generated a combination of forms of inquiry: supportive, collaborative and appreciative. These were combined with reflexive qualitative ethnographic recording by the researcher, to report and reflect on the whole process.
TB patients in Jogjakarta municipality (urban) and Kulon Progo district (rural) were recruited from health care facilities participating in the DOTS strategy and health care facilities not participating in the DOTS strategy, using purposive sampling methods. Data were collected through in-depth interviews with TB patients and members of their family and through Focus Group Discussions (FGD) with community members.
Retrospective cohort study evaluating overall and cancer mortality in relation to immunosuppressive drug exposure among patients with ocular inflammatory diseases. Demographic, clinical, and treatment data derived from medical records, and mortality results from United States National Death Index linkage. The cohort's mortality risk was compared with US vital statistics using standardised mortality ratios. Overall and cancer mortality in relation to use or non-use of immunosuppressive drugs within the cohort was studied with survival analysis.
Five tertiary ocular inflammation clinics. Patients 7957 US residents with non-infectious ocular inflammation, 2340 of whom received immunosuppressive drugs during follow up. Exposures Use of antimetabolites, T cell inhibitors, alkylating agents, and tumour necrosis factor inhibitors.
Overall mortality, cancer mortality.
Chromatographic, mass spectroscopy, and UV-visible spectrometric techniques were used to study the oxidation of melatonin by ROO or horseradish peroxidase (HRP)/H2O2. Our focus was the characterization of products and the study of features of the reaction.
Bactericidal potency was monitored by radial diffusion, viable count, and minimal inhibitory concentration assays, while toxicity was probed by hemolysis. Mechanistic information was obtained from assays on peptide-induced vesicle disruption and lipopolysaccharide binding.
By using electrophysiological measurements on reconstituted lipid membranes, we used alamethicin, melittin and magainin to report on how controlled manipulation of the membrane dipole potential by the styrylpyridinium dye RH 421 affects the kinetic and transport features of peptides within membranes.
A genetically encoded calcium sensor protein, G-CaMP, was expressed in ASK neurons of C. elegans, and the intracellular calcium dynamics of the neurons were observed.
To investigate Neu2 expression during muscle atrophy, we employed an in vitro model consisting of terminally differentiated C2C12 myotubes exposed to different pro-atrophic stimuli that triggered catabolic pathways involved in proteasome activation or autophagy.
Hen egg lysozyme was nitrated using varying amounts of either PN or the PN donor, 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1). The activity, nitration status and the susceptibility of lysozyme to proteasome-catalyzed degradation were assessed.
The verdoheme was generated by adding peracetic acid and analyzed by mass spectrometry and spectrophotometry.
To identify genes up-regulated by action of morphine on the opioid receptor expressed in CD3+ T cells, PCR-select cDNA subtraction was performed by the use of total RNA from human CD3+ T cells treated with morphine in the presence and absence of naloxone.
In the present study, Polygonatum odoratum lectin (designated POL), a mannose-binding specific GNA-related lectin, possessed a remarkable antiproliferative activity toward murine fibrosarcoma L929 cells. And, this lectin induced L929 cell apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. In addition, POL treatment increased the levels of FasL and Fas-Associated protein with Death Domain (FADD) proteins and resulted in caspase-8 activation. Also, POL treatment caused mitochondrial transmembrane potential collapse and cytochrome c release, leading to activations of caspase-9 and caspase-3. Moreover, POL treatment enhanced tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha)-induced L929 cell apoptosis.
We assayed the mitochondrial membrane potential (mtDeltapsi) using rhodamine 123, measured ATP level in mitochondria by HPLC, and detected the activities of mitochondrial F(0)F(1)-ATPase and dehydrogenases. Besides, the mitochondrial dysfunction-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was determined by a fluorometric assay, and the effects of antioxidant L-cysteine on PLE-induced ROS production and the antifungal effect of PLE on C. albicans were also investigated.
gWIZ luciferase and gWIZ green fluorescent protein (GFP) plasmids were used as reporter genes. Mammalian cell lines HEK 293, MCF7 and NIH/3T3 were used in the transfection experiments. Transfection was performed by bombardment of the cells with gene-coated gold particles using the Helios Gene Gun. The technology was assessed by analyzing gene expression and cell damage. Cell damage was evaluated by MTT assay.
Multifaceted experimental techniques like competition dialysis, absorption, fluorescence, circular dichroism and calorimetry were employed. Salt dependence and temperature dependence of the binding was also elucidated.
ERG assessments were obtained in 22 SAD patients (2 men, 20 women, mean age 31 +/- 9 years) in the fall/winter season before and after 2 and 4 weeks of light therapy and in summertime. Matched healthy participants (2 men, 14 women; mean age 29 +/- 8 years) were evaluated once in the fall/winter and once in summer. The 29-item Structured Interview Guide for the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, Seasonal Affective Disorder version was administered. Standard ERG parameters were derived from the photopic and scotopic luminance response functions. Salivary melatonin concentration during ERG was assessed in both groups but during fall/winter assessments only.
Eighteen patients with bipolar I disorder and 18 control subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging at study entry and after 4 years. Prefrontal GI was computed as the ratio of folded inner contour to exposed outer contour.
The expression of EPO and EPO receptor (EPOR) in multiple brain regions was examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry. The regulation of EPO and the transcription factor hypoxia-induced factor-alpha (HIF1alpha) after electroconvulsive seizure (ECS) was investigated. Behavioral effects of EPO were tested in the rodent forced swimming and novelty-induced hypophagia (NIH) models. EPO gene profiles were obtained by microarray analysis of the hippocampus after intracerebroventricular infusion.
We measured interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in CSF and plasma of suicide attempters (n = 63) and healthy control subjects (n = 47). Patients were classified according to diagnosis and violent or nonviolent suicide attempt. We evaluated suicidal ideation and depressive symptoms using the Suicide Assessment Scale and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). We also analyzed the relation between cytokines and monoamine metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in CSF, as well as the integrity of the blood-brain barrier as reflected by the CSF:serum albumin ratio.
Voxel-based morphometry and functional magnetic resonance imaging were used to measure gray matter volume and emotional reactivity in 50 children aged between 10 and 12 years. We tested the hypothesis that met158 allele affects structural brain development and confers heightened reactivity within the affective frontolimbic circuit in children.
Brain 5-HT1A binding potential (BP(F) = B(max)/K(D), where B(max) = total available receptors, and 1/K(D) = ligand affinity) was measured in 32 currently depressed, medication-free BD subjects and 47 controls. Participants were genotyped for the 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism C(-1019)G.
Here we investigate the impact of a functional polymorphism in the promoter region of the 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) on measures of motor cortex excitability.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to examine basal ganglia responses to: 1) cues signaling possible monetary rewards and losses; and 2) delivery of monetary gains and penalties, in 13 young adults who experienced maltreatment before age 14 years and 31 nonmaltreated control subjects.
Forty-nine BPD patients were randomly assigned to a chronotherapeutic augmentation (CAT; SD+ BL+ SPA) or to a medication-only (MED) group. Clinical outcome was assessed using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression.
Sixteen depressed older adults and 13 control subjects underwent two resting positron emission tomography (PET) studies with the radiotracer [18F]-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose after placebo and citalopram infusions.
We performed T1- and T2-weighted imaging as well as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in depressed elderly subjects (n = 73) and nondepressed control subjects (n = 23) matched for age and cerebrovascular risk factors. The structural images were segmented into white matter, gray matter, cerebrospinal fluid, and WMH. The DTI parameters were calculated in white matter regions of interest after excluding the WMH.
We analyzed DTI images using tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS), a whole-brain voxel-by-voxel analysis, to investigate white matter structure in 21 adolescents with BD, who also were offspring of at least one parent with BD, and 18 age- and IQ-matched control subjects. Fractional anisotropy (FA; a measure of diffusion anisotropy), trace values (average diffusivity), and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC; a measure of overall diffusivity) were used as variables in this analysis. In a post hoc analysis, we correlated between FA values, behavioral measures, and medication exposure.
Seventeen unmedicated subjects with remitted MDD (RMDD) and 13 healthy control subjects underwent catecholamine depletion with oral alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (AMPT) in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover study. The main outcome measure was the reaction time on the monetary incentive delay (MID) task.
Glutamate and GABA synthesis as well as oxidative metabolism were studied in heterozygous mice for the VGLUT1+/- and wildtype. The regulation of neurotransmitter levels, proteins involved in the glutamate/GABA cycle, and behavior by both genotype and chronic mild stress (CMS) were studied. Finally, the effect of chronic imipramine on VGLUT1 control and CMS mice was studied.
Freud-2 distribution was examined with Northern and Western blot, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistochemistry/immunofluorescence; Freud-2 function was examined by electrophoretic mobility shift, reporter assay, and Western blot.
Femoral head osteonecrosis was surgically induced in 56 immature pigs. Hypoxyprobe staining, cell viability assay, HIF-1alpha western blot, RT-qPCR of HIF-1alpha, VEGF, VEGFR2, and PECAM, and micro-CT assessments of microfil-infused femoral heads were performed.
Radiographs were taken from 209 postmenopausal women aged between 50 and 85 years (average 62) who were randomly sampled from various districts in Ho Chi Minh City. The presence of vertebral fracture was assessed by the Genant's semi-quantitative method with two independent readers. Bone mineral density (BMD) at the lumbar spine (LS), femoral neck (FN) and whole body was measured by DXA (Hologic QDR4500). Anthropometric and clinical data were obtained by a standardized questionnaire.
We present a case report of a 31 year old XY female with CAIS with a longitudinal follow-up for 5 years of areal and volumetric bone parameters. Areal and volumetric bone parameters were determined using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT). Sex steroids, LH, FSH and IGF-I were determined by immunoassay.
Bone strontium was measured by a novel DPA method developed by us. 32 osteoporotic female patients volunteered to participate in a 3 years open study of the effect on bone Sr. The group was treated with 2 g SrR/day, 17 of the group had received active treatment for 4-5 years before the study. DXA BMD measurements and DPA measurements of the relative bone strontium hydroxy apatite termed %Sr (SrHA/(CaHA+SrHA)) were done simultaneously ultra-distally (UD) on the non-dominant radius every six months during the study and three and six months after treatment stop.
Osteoblast precursors (bone marrow stromal cells, BMSCs) and osteoclast precursors (bone marrow macrophages, BMMs) derived from C57BL/6 mice were cultured. Expression of the SP receptor (NK1) was detected by using immunocytochemical staining and PCR. Effects of SP on proliferation and differentiation of BMSCs were studied by measuring BrdU incorporation, gene expression, alkaline phosphatase activity, and osteocalcin and Runx2 protein levels with EIA and western blot assays, respectively. Effects of SP on BMMs were determined using a BrdU assay, counting multinucleated cells staining positive for tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP(+)), measuring pit erosion area, and evaluating RANKL protein production and NF-kappaB activity with ELISA and western blot.
We performed a prospective cross-sectional study of 100 obese children [age, 8.9 (8.3 to 9.4); BMI-Standard Deviation Score (SDS), 2.2 (2.0 to 2.3)], and 100 age-matched lean healthy subjects. Fasting insulin, leptin, IGF-1, acylated and total ghrelin were measured by radioimmunoassay. Des-acyl ghrelin values were calculated as total ghrelin minus acylated ghrelin. Whole body (WB) and lumbar spine (LS) BMD, and BMC as well as body composition were assessed by DXA (Hologic QDR-4500W). LS volumetric BMD (BMAD) was estimated using the formula of Katzman (BMC/area(1.5)), while WB BMC data were expressed as BMC/height.
Healthy American white (n=612) and black (n=164) premenopausal women, aged 23 to 57 years, and healthy American white (n=492) and black (n=169) men, aged 20 to 63 years, had volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD) and geometry variables measured at the femur by computerized tomography (CT), and areal bone mineral density (aBMD) at femoral neck measured by dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA).
We prospectively examined left femoral neck and spine with dual-energy X-ray absorption. Demographic data, basic laboratory studies, history of clinical epilepsy, parathyroid hormone and vitamin D level were obtained.
Twelve Danish female landrace pigs underwent a 3-level ALIF procedure at L3-6. PEEK interbody cages packed with rhBMP-2, COLLOSS E, or autograft were inserted. The animals were divided into two groups of six, and observed for four and eight weeks postoperatively. MicroCT was performed for evaluation of microstructure of the bone within the cage. A mathematical finite element model was developed to investigate the aqueous behavior within the cages when exposed to external compressive forces.
Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (interstimulus intervals (ISI): 1, 3, 5, 10 and 20 ms) was applied over the primary motor cortex (M1) in 30 healthy subjects (range 6-30 years, median age 15 years and 8 months, SD 7,9) divided in three groups: adults (&gt;or=18 years), adolescents (&gt; 10 and &lt; 18 years) and children (&lt;or=10 years).
Subjects were 8 neurologically and radiologically asymptomatic CALD patients. They were chosen from 22 ALD patients before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) treatment. Wechsler Intelligence Scale tests and other neuropsychological tests were performed. Their IQ data were compared with those of symptomatic ALD children with apparent brain lesions.
Retrospective analysis of 59 patients who underwent RT between 1990 and 2003 for PSA recurrence after radical prostatectomy. Patients received a median of 66Gy to the prostate bed with 3D or 2D RT. The main end point was bDFS according to ASTRO and Phoenix (nadir+2) definitions. Different criterion sets were analysed to calculate bDFS and pretreatment factors that might predict biochemical relapse were sought for each.
From February 2004 to January 2007, 57 patients (pts), were treated by a concomitant administration of T and normo-fractionated RT of either whole breast (+/-boost) or chest. The perfusion of T started either with or after chemotherapy (CT). Left ventricular ejection fractions (LEVF), assessed at baseline, before start of RT, after completion of RT and then every four to six months with either echocardiography or multiple gated acquisition scanning, were considered normal if greater or equal to 50% or stated so by the cardiologist. Inclusion criteria included a normal LVEF at baseline. Skin toxicity was evaluated using CTCAEV3. Median age was 49 years (25-80). CT with anthracycline was administered in 84% (total dose 300 mg/m(2)). All but one patient (treated weekly) received T every three weeks (8 mg/kg followed by 6 mg/kg) for a median duration of 12 months (6-33). The internal mammary chain was irradiated in 88% of cases. Median follow-up for LVEF assessment was 13 months (2-33).
A prospective, multicenter, non-randomised study was conducted in the framework of a project entitled "Support Program for Costly Diagnostic and Therapeutic Innovations". Of the 20 hospitals involved in the clinical study, eight reference centers participated to the medico-economic study evaluating the costs of staff and equipment, as well as the costs of maintenance and consumables.
Retrospective study of 148 women treated at the Institut Curie for operable Figo Stage IB2 to IIB, biopsy proved CC. Among them, 70 pts, median age 46 years, were treated using the same regimen associating primary radiocisplatinum based chemotherapy, intracavitary LDR brachytherapy, followed by extended radical hysterectomy. Kaplan-Meier estimates were used to draw survival curves. Comparisons of survival distribution were assessed by the log-rank test.
Retrospective study with central pathology review of the 25 consecutive patients treated at the Institut Curie (Paris, France) between 1969 and 2006 for non metastatic malignant phyllodes tumors of the breast. The median follow-up was 65 months (7-257 months).
We undertook a retrospective analysis of consecutive patients with non-resectable NSCLC treated with high-dose (74Gy) standard-fractionation 3D-CRT, with particular attention to the relationship between lung and heart radiation-induced toxicities.
Amyloid deposits were subtyped in 17 cardiac specimens and 23 renal specimens using an immunofluorescence panel.
Human mitral posterior leaflets (control, n=6-9; myxomatous, n=14-21; mean age, 61 years for all groups) were histochemically stained for proteoglycan core proteins, hyaluronan, and the hyaluronan receptor for endocytosis. Stain intensity was semiquantitatively graded to determine differences in marker abundance between normal and myxomatous valves. The proteoglycans were localized to different regions of the leaflet by correspondence to parallel Movat-stained sections.
Among 155 cases of IE encountered in a 14-year period, we selected nine cases that had isolated PVIE for analysis. The clinical records were reviewed for the patient demographics, presence or absence of underlying cardiac disease or other predisposing factors, and modes of presentation; these were correlated with the relevant investigations. A detailed study of the heart was done in all with special attention to the pulmonary valve morphology.
In a total of 12 cases, eight females and four males, ranging in age from 39 gestational weeks to 93 postnatal days, dying suddenly and unexpectedly, a fibromuscular hyperplasia of the pulmonary artery was detected. Postmortem examinations were requested with a clinical SIDS or sudden unexpected perinatal death. A complete autopsy was performed, including close examination of the brainstem and cardiac conduction system.
Left ventricular apical core tissues from 29 sequential subjects who received a HeartMate II continuous axial flow left ventricular assist device were studied retrospectively to determine whether interstitial fibrosis, replacement fibrosis (scar), the presence of mural thrombus, or other histopathologic findings were associated with hemodynamic changes or mortality in this population. Patients received left ventricular assist devices as bridges to transplantation or as destination therapy. Interstitial fibrosis was determined by observer scoring and digital scoring methods. Before and after left ventricular assist device procedure, right heart catheterizations were reviewed for clinical cardiac data.
DSMs, surgically excised over a 10-year period in a large adult tertiary care center, were reviewed with regard to the age and gender of the patients, clinical findings, and the morphological features.
Each one of 48 patients with spinal cord injury was seated in his or her own wheelchair on the four models of cushions analyzed (low-profile air, high-profile air, dual-compartment air, and gel and firm foam), which were presented in randomized order. The pressure distribution readings and support surface area of the user-cushion interface were obtained with a matrix of piezocapacitive sensors.
In a knee-joint-simulator four kinds of crosslinked polyethylene (one produced by sequential irradiation and annealing process, three by different remelting processes, including fixed- and mobile-bearing-types) and two UHMWPE- (fixed- and mobile-bearing) inserts were tested with the appropriate femoral and tibial component recommended from the manufacturer.
Kinematic gait analysis was conducted in 12 patients with central cord syndrome of more than one year of evolution and functional capacity for walking with one crutch or without crutches. Patients were asked to walk with one crutch and with two crutches at a freely chosen walking speed through a 10-m walkway. Three-dimensional kinematic equipment based on active markers was used to analyze temporospatial and articular parameters (maximum, minimum, and range of motion, ROM, throughout the cycle)
Forty plate-bone constructs were assembled and divided into four groups of ten. Perpendicularly placed screws were placed in one group, convergently placed crossing screws were placed in a second group, an oblique end screw was placed in a third group, and a fourth group utilized perpendicularly placed locking screws in a locking plate. All test subjects were mounted and loaded in cantilever bending to the point of failure. Stiffness, initial load to failure, and maximal load tolerated were all analyzed.
Thirty rats were divided into three groups, i.e., the hyaluronic acid group, saline group, and control group. The hyaluronic acid and saline groups received a total of four intra-articular injections, whereas no injection was administered to the control group. The hyaluronic acid group was injected with 50 microg (0.05 cc) hyaluronic acid, and the saline group was injected with 50 microl (0.05 cc) of 0.9% sodium chloride solution. All of the rats were sacrificed on day 29 and the femur-anterior cruciate ligament-tibia complexes from the right knees were prepared, tested mechanically, and evaluated histologically.
Ten subjects were analysed, instrumented with a single comprehensive marker-set of 14 markers identified from the union of the corresponding from eight current models for trunk kinematics. Activities of daily living (walking, chair rising/sitting, step-up/down), elementary trunk movements (flexion, bending and axial rotation), and isolated motion of the shoulders, both synchronous and asynchronous were collected. Resulting rotations in the three anatomical planes, both in the laboratory and in the pelvis reference frames, were calculated.
We have collected sitting postural sway data from two groups of infants, one with typical development (n=33), and one with delayed development and either diagnosed with or at risk for cerebral palsy (n=26), when the infants had developed to the point where they could just maintain sitting for about 10s. Postural sway data was collected while infants were sitting on a force platform, and the center of pressure was analyzed using both linear and nonlinear measures.
A comprehensive comparison of muscle forces and spinal loads estimated by a single-joint (L5-S1 or L4-L5) EMG-driven model (EMGAO) and a multi-joint (T1-S1) Kinematics-driven finite element model (KD) of the spine under different static lifting activities in upright standing posture is carried out. Identical geometry for the spine and trunk musculature as well as passive properties are used in both models. Required model inputs including kinematics, force plate and surface EMG data are collected from one asymptomatic male subject.
Four knee pairs were loaded in valgus bending until gross injury with or without a tibiofemoral compression pre-load. The peak valgus moment and resultant motions of the knee joint were recorded. Pressure sensitive film documented the magnitude and location of tibiofemoral contact. Cartilage fissures were documented on the tibial plateau, and microcracks in subchondral bone were documented from micro-computed tomography scans.
We analyzed the concentrations of the TM carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA15.3, CA125 and CA19.9 in both CSF and serum from 18 patients with neoplastic meningitis diagnosed by CSF cytology. We also performed these same measurements in 50 patients affected by other neurological diseases (OND) in order to evaluate putative intrathecal synthesis. In addition, CSF and serum concentrations of the proangiogenic factor VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) were evaluated.
We evaluated different sample types. Control materials and lithium heparin plasma pools were used to determine: limit of blank (LoB), limit of detection (LoD), imprecision and linearity. The effects of potential endogenous interfering substances and the possibility of falsely increased cardiac troponin I (cTnI) concentrations attributable to the presence of heterophilic antibodies (HA), rheumatoid factor (RF) and human anti-mouse antibodies (HAMA) in high concentrations were evaluated. The 99th percentile limit of the cTnI value distribution was determined from 320 Caucasian reference individuals.
Patients without immunoglobulin G (IgG) titers of EBV were compared according to Hp phenotypes (Hp 1-1, Hp 2-1, Hp 2-2; determined by starch gel electrophoresis) in 208 individuals against 918 healthy subjects with unknown EBV status.
We analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum UA concentrations in 30 MS patients and 20 controls with non-inflammatory neurological diseases (NIND) and correlated these findings with demographic and clinical characteristics of MS patients. Disease activity was assessed by brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and the CSF/serum albumin quotient as an indicator of the state of blood-brain-barrier (BBB).
We used a validated, high-sensitive real-time quantitative telomeric repeat amplification protocol (RQ-TRAP) to determine telomerase activity in circulating blood leukocytes.
A combined approach based on innovative microarray slides coated with a special copolymer was developed for the identification of three polymorphisms located in the causative gene for cystic fibrosis (CF). This technique was applied to the analysis of fetal DNA in maternal plasma from four couples that carried different allelic variants.
Assay performance characteristics such as precision and recovery were measured according to protocols established by the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI). A reference range study was conducted. Analytical sensitivity and specificity, interfering substances, recovery, and linearity studies were performed. Method comparison, against the ADVIA Centaur C-Peptide assay (Siemens), was evaluated with clinical specimens from patients with abnormal insulin secretion.
Within-run and total imprecision were assessed using a selection of representative reagents. Deviation from a consensus mean was tested using samples from a proficiency testing scheme. Method comparison using routine samples was carried out against the MODULAR ANALYTICS SWA and COBAS INTEGRA 800 analysis systems.
A total of 68 patients with colorectal carcinoma were recruited and the levels of RhoA and RhoC mRNA transcripts in cancer, paratumoral and normal tissues were characterized by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR). Their correlation to clinical histopathological parameters was analyzed.
Serum anti-CCP antibodies and rheumatoid factor (RF) were evaluated in 30 patients with RA and 47 patients with chronic HCV infection. Of those with HCV infection, 20 patients had chronic HCV infection associated with articular involvement and 27 patients had chronic HCV infection without any articular involvement.
Among 1256 adult participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2003-2004, urinary metabolites of PAH (monohydroxy-PAH), and serum GGT were measured. We selected the 10 monohydroxy-PAHs (OH-PAHs) for which at least 90% of participants had concentrations greater than the limit of detection.
We examined CRP distribution, gender difference, and determinants of CRP concentrations ranging from 0.02 mg/L to 10.0 mg/L, in 4923 Korean adults (2248 men; 2675 women) who received health checkups at Gangnam Severance Hospital from March 2006 to May 2007.
We assessed CRC incidence and mortality in a group of asymptomatic average-risk patients who underwent screening colonoscopy between 1989 and 1993 at a university hospital. By using standardized incidence ratios and standardized mortality ratios, we compared our observed CRC rates with expected rates from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data.
We identified 10,958 cases of established BE in the Caris Diagnostics pathology database from January 2002-April 2007. Demographic, pathologic, and endoscopic data were recorded. Dysplasia was categorized as low grade, high grade, or adenocarcinoma. Adherence was defined as &gt; or =4 esophageal biopsies per 2 cm BE or a ratio &gt; or =2.0. Generalized estimating equation multivariable analysis was performed to assess factors associated with adherence, adjusted for clustering by individual gastroenterologist.
Thirty-nine adults (mean age, 50 years; 24 female) with refractory reflux symptoms were evaluated by impedance/pH monitoring while on therapy, followed by wireless pH monitoring while off therapy. Non-acid reflux events in patients on therapy were correlated with acid reflux parameters studied off therapy. In addition, the likelihood of test abnormalities on and off therapy was determined.
We reviewed the records of adult patients with NASH cirrhosis who underwent liver transplantation by using a prospectively collected database from a single center. Data from patients with NASH cirrhosis were compared with matched controls who received transplantation for primary biliary cirrhosis/primary sclerosing cholangitis, alcoholic liver disease, or HCV.
Cases of severe multi-organ iron overload were identified by review of autopsy protocols and Perls-stained tissue specimens, analysis of hepatocyte and Kupffer cell iron levels, and measurement of liver tissue iron concentrations.
We measured HRQOL in 156 patients with cirrhosis awaiting liver transplantation by using the Short Form Liver Disease Quality of Life instrument. We followed patients prospectively and used Cox proportional hazard models to measure the independent effect of baseline HRQOL on survival, adjusting for MELD and other covariates.
Records were reviewed retrospectively from 4671 adult patients who had at least 1 office visit during a 2-year period. Demographic information and laboratory data were collected. An elevated ALT level was defined as &gt;19 IU/mL for women and &gt;30 IU/mL for men.
By using the 1993-2005 US Nationwide Inpatient Sample, we identified 581,380 cirrhotic patients who had been admitted to hospitals. The proportion discharged against medical advice and predictors of self-discharge were analyzed by using regression models with adjustments for clinical factors, including illness severity.
A monoclonal antibody specific for an eosinophil secondary granule protein (eosinophil peroxidase [EPX]) was developed and shown to specifically identify intact eosinophils and detect eosinophil degranulation in formalin-fixed specimens. A histopathologic scoring algorithm was developed to analyze data from patient evaluations; the utility of this algorithm was assessed by using archived esophageal tissues from patients with known diagnoses of EoE and GERD as well as controls from 2 tertiary care centers.
We studied 2741 primary-care outpatients, 18-70 years in age, who met Rome II criteria for dyspepsia. Patients with alarm features (dysphagia, bleeding, weight loss, etc) were excluded. All patients underwent endoscopy. The cost and diagnostic yield of an early endoscopy strategy in all patients were compared with those of endoscopy limited to age-defined cohorts. Costs were calculated for a low, intermediate, and high cost environment.
In this multicenter, randomized, single blind, noninferiority trial, 362 patients with quiescent ulcerative colitis were randomly assigned (1:1) to groups that were given oral mesalamine 2 g, once daily, or 1 g, twice daily, for 12 months. The primary objective was to compare remission rates at 1 year, based on the ulcerative colitis disease activity index score, using Kaplan-Meier methodology.
Eighty-two patients with newly diagnosed HL were prospectively included in the study. All patients were staged with both conventional clinical staging (CCS) methods, including computed tomography (CT) and whole-body FDG-PET methods. A standard of reference for the nodal regions and the extranodal organs was determined using all available information, including the CCS methods, FDG-PET, the diagnostic histology and the follow-up examinations. The results of the CCS were then compared to the FDG-PET results.
Fourteen patients with esophageal cancer underwent CT, conventional bronchoscopy, EUS, and EBUS for preoperative staging. All patients underwent EBUS and EUS with an Olympus(R) MH-908 echoendoscope at 7.5 MHz. Seven patients were eligible for the study according to the inclusion criteria.
A prospective study was performed with 30 postmenopausal women before and immediately after the end of treatment with 100 mg/day of an isoflavones-rich, concentrated soy extract for six months. A skin punch was performed in the gluteal region for sample collection before and immediately after the treatment program. Morphometric determination of epidermal thickness, the papillary index (wrinkling), and the amount of dermal elastic and collagen fibers was assessed. In addition, the number of blood vessels in the sample was also evaluated. The paired Student's t-test was used for statistical analysis (P &lt; 0.05).
Aitchison's compositional distance was used to calculate vectors for each possibility of allocation in a covariate adaptive method. Two different procedures were designed to allocate patients in small blocks or sequentially one-by-one.
We retrospectively reviewed the records of the 39 patients who received lung transplantation in our institution between August 2003 and August 2006. Twenty-nine patients survived one year post-transplantation, and all of them were followed.
Twenty nulliparous women with no anatomical alterations and/or dysfunction of the pelvic floor were enrolled in our study. All the women had the ability to voluntarily contract their PFM (Pelvic Floor Muscles), as assessed by digital palpation. The intra-vaginal pressure was assessed using three different brands of perineometer (Neurodyn Evolution, SensuPower and Peritron). Each volunteer was evaluated on three alternate days by a single examiner using a single brand of perineometer on each day. In the assessment, the volunteers were required to pull (contract) their PFM in and up as strongly as possible 3 times and to sustain the contraction for 5 seconds, with an interval of 30 seconds between each pull. For the statistical analysis, a concordance correlation coefficient was used to compare the values that were obtained with each brand of perineometer.
A retrospective review was performed of patients who were admitted with lung metastases, and who underwent thoracotomy for resection, after treatment of a primary tumor. Data were collected regarding demographics, tumor features, treatment, and outcome.
A retrospective study of 48 patients (81 eyes) with PCG who underwent primary trabeculectomy, trabeculotomy, or combined trabeculotomy and trabeculectomy (CTT).
We analyzed 1588 patients with MI who had been included prospectively in a databank and followed for up to 7.5 years. In this population, 548 patients were &gt;70 years old (elderly group--EG), and 1040 were &lt;70 years of age (younger group--YG); 1088 underwent IT during hospitalization, and the remaining 500 were treated medically (conservative therapy--CT). Patients were monitored either by visit or by phone at least once a year. A standard questionnaire was administered to all patients. The impact of IT was analyzed with both non-adjusted and adjusted models.
Male albino Wistar rats (10-12 weeks old) were exposed to RF-EMR from an active GSM (0.9/1.8 GHz) mobile phone for 1 hour continuously per day for 28 days. Controls were exposed to a mobile phone without a battery for the same period. The phone was kept in a cage with a wooden bottom in order to address concerns that the effects of exposure to the phone could be due to heat emitted by the phone rather than to RF-EMR alone. Animals were sacrificed 24 hours after the last exposure and tissues of interest were harvested.
Twenty-eight Sprague-Dawley rats were used in the study. Excision and end-to-end anastomosis was performed in the distal colon of the rat. The Famotidine Group received 2 mg/kg/day famotidine; the Control Group received the same amount of saline. Bursting pressure of anastomoses and hydroxyproline content of perianastomotic tissues were evaluated on the third and seventh days following surgery.
Bibliometric indicators based on searches for author affiliation of original scientific articles or reviews published in journals indexed in the databases Web of Science, MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS and SciELO from January 2000 to December 2003 were used in this study. The retrieved records were analyzed according to the index parameters of the journals and modes of access. The number of citations was used to calculate the institutional impact factor.
To induce scleroderma, female New Zealand rabbits (n = 12) were subcutaneously immunized with 1 mg/ml of collagen V (Col V) in complete Freund's adjuvant, twice with a thirty-day interval. Fifteen days later, the animals received an intramuscular booster with type V collagen in incomplete Freund's adjuvant, twice with a fifteen-day interval. The control group was inoculated with 1 ml of 10 mM acetic acid solution diluted with an equal amount of Freund's adjuvant. Serial dorsal skin biopsies were performed at 7, 15, and 30 days and stained with H&amp;E, Masson's trichrome and Picrosírius for morphological and morphometric analyses.
Eight different heat and moisture exchangers were studied using a respiratory system analog. The system included a heated chamber (acrylic glass, maintained at 37 degrees C), a preserved swine lung, a hygrometer, circuitry and a ventilator. Humidity and temperature levels were measured using eight distinct interposed heat and moisture exchangers given different tidal volumes, respiratory frequencies and flow-rate conditions. Recovery of absolute humidity (%RAH) was calculated for each setting.
Twenty-nine pigs were subjected to severe liver injury and treated 30 min later with either: (1) 2 mg terlipressin in a bolus, (2) placebo-treated controls, (3) 4 mL/kg 7.5% hypertonic NaCl, (4) 4 mL/kg 7.2% hypertonic-hyperoncotic hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5, or (5) normal saline at three times lost blood volume.
Through "reasoning by analogy" we defined an approach for the representation and implementation of "presentational knowledge". A proof-of-concept implementation was built to validate its implementability and to test for unanticipated issues.
This review attempts a critical reading of the literature.
Kidneys of 21 pigs were exposed in situ to warm ischemia for 60min. The kidneys were randomly allocated to three experimental groups, each receiving a 4-h treatment of either cold storage, machine perfusion, or retrograde oxygen persufflation. Tissue samples were examined for malondialdehyde and histological changes. Daily blood samples were examined for creatinine levels.
Simulated indirect restorations were prepared by application of resin composite (Clearfil AP-X) or FRC (EverStick) to nylon rings with 1.5mm thickness and 8mm diameter, followed by light-curing. Resin composite basing material (Clearfil Majesty Flow or Clearfil AP-X) was applied to identical rings and light-cured through the simulated indirect restorations with exposure times of 20, 40, or 60s. Light-curing though a ring without resin material (=no indirect restoration) served as control. For each combination of basing material and indirect restoration 10 specimens were prepared for each exposure time. Top and bottom surface Vickers microhardness numbers (VHNs) of basing materials were recorded after 24h.
Rectangular specimens were prepared from different ceramic materials (glass/lithium disilicate glass/glass-infiltrated zirconia/partially sintered zirconia/hipped zirconia ceramic) and polished; surface roughness (Ra) was determined. Glass plates were used as a control. Specimens were incubated with phosphate-buffered saline or an artificial saliva (protein mixture; 2h, 37 degrees C). Surface free energy (gamma(t)) and its polar (gamma(p)) and disperse (gamma(d)) contribution were determined prior to and after artificial saliva exposure. Uncoated and protein-coated specimens were incubated with Streptococcus gordonii DSMZ 6777, Streptococcus oralis DSMZ 20068 or Streptococcus sanguinis DSMZ 20068 suspension for 2.5h at 37 degrees C (n=15 for each treatment and strain). Adherent streptococci were quantified fluorometrically.
The dental elastomers were subjected to tensile testing and Shore A scale hardness measurements. Young's moduli were calculated from the hardness values using the Gent equation and the BS 903 equation. These calculated values were then compared with values derived experimentally from the tensile tests.
Specimens were prepared using the conventional lost wax technique for gold and nickel-chromium (Ni-Cr) alloys, and by cutting blocks and bar for CAD-CAM ceramic and stainless-steel (St-St) alloy, respectively. All specimens were polished (600grit SiC paper), and ultrasonically cleaned with ethanol for 5min. After they were immersed in 0.9% sodium chloride (NaCl) and 1% lactic acid, and were kept at 37 degrees C for 7 days, the elemental release (mug/cm(2)) from each material was analyzed by using inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy. The rate (n=5) was statistically analyzed by ANOVA/Tukey test (p&lt;0.05). Two immersion blank solutions were used as a negative control group.
Seven experimental one-step adhesives with a varying amount of camphorquinone ranging from 0 to 5.25wt% were prepared. Their micro-tensile bond strength to enamel and dentin was determined. In addition, the bond strength was also determined when the adhesive was not light-cured prior to the application of the composite. SEM and TEM were used for further evaluation of the resultant interfacial ultrastructure.
Selective infiltration etched zirconia discs (Procera; NobelBiocare) were coated with one of four novel engineered zirconia primers containing reactive monomers and were bonded to resin-composite discs (Panavia F2.0). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) was carried out to examine the chemical activation of zirconia primers from mixing time and up to 60min. The bilayered specimens were cut into microbars (1mm(2) in cross-section area) and zirconia-resin microtensile bond strength (MTBS) was evaluated immediately and after 90 days of water storage at 37 degrees C. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to analyze the fracture surface.
GIC discs 2mm thick and 10mm in diameter were made (Amalgomer CR, Advanced Healthcare, Tonbridge, Kent, UK), randomly divided into 8 groups and stored at 37 degrees C in air or artificial saliva (AS) for 1, 7, 30 and 90 days. Discs were tested by loading centrally using a 20mm diameter hard steel ball while resting freely on a filled-nylon substrate (E: 10GPa), at 23 degrees C in air. The failure load at the first bottom-initiated radial crack was detected acoustically.
Experimental composites were prepared with an identical resin formulation [TEGDMA:UDMA:bis-GMA of 30.25:33.65:33.65]. Five groups of resin were prepared at varied CQ concentrations (0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6wt% of the resin). Five subgroups of resin were prepared at each level of CQ concentration, by adding EDMAB at 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 and 0.8wt% of the resin, resulting in 25 experimental resins. Finally, strontium glass ( approximately 3microm) and silica (0.04microm) were added at 71.5 and 12.6wt% of the composite, respectively. Samples (n=3) were then evaluated for Knoop hardness (KHN), degree of conversion (DC), depth of cure (DoC) and contraction stress (CS).
An electrochemical anodization treatment was used to produce a network oxide layer on Ti surface. Surface characterization of the network layer was carried out using thin film X-ray diffractometer and field emission scanning electron microscopy. Human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) were made to express green fluorescent protein (GFP) by retroviral transduction. The GFP signal was measured in situ to assess in vitro and in vivo cell growth on Ti surfaces. In vivo experiments on Ti-supported cell growth were carried out on the back skin of nude mice. Alizarin red staining and immunofluorescent staining were used to observe cell differentiation.
A selection of key publications (1 book, 35 scientific original publications and 1 website source) covering the areas nanotechnology, antimicrobial materials, stimuli responsive materials, self-repairing materials and materials for tissue engineering with direct or indirect relations and/or implications to resin-based dental materials is critically reviewed and discussed. Connections between these fields and their potential for resin-based dental materials are highlighted and put in perspective.
Thirty-nine patients received 98 Cergogold inlays with at least one inlay luted with Definite Multibond/Definite (n=45) and at least one inlay luted with Syntac/Variolink Ultra (n=53) in a split mouth design. Treatments were carried out in two private practices by two operators (Operator A: n=38; Operator B: n=60). Forty-four cavities required caries profunda treatment, 23 cavities exhibited no enamel at the cervical margin. At baseline (2 months), and after 6, 14, 27, and 51 months of clinical service, the restorations were investigated according to modified USPHS criteria.
Experiments have been performed in an isolated system using MMA, TEGDMA or HEMA, respectively exposed to pig liver esterase (PLE) in phosphate buffer. The reaction of tested comonomers was terminated by the use of sodium hydroxide solution, sulfuric acid or saturated NaCl solution, respectively. The samples were analyzed by the use of headspace-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
BelleGlass NG (indirect resin; 10 shades) and Estelite Sigma (direct resin; 12 shades), and 4 shades of veneer ceramics were investigated. Bovine enamel was used as a reference. Reflected and transmitted colors of specimens were measured relative to the illuminants D65, A and F2 with a reflection spectrophotometer. OP values relative to the three illuminants [OP(D65), OP(A) and OP(F2)], difference in OP (DeltaOP) and OP difference ratio relative to OP(D65) [DeltaOP/OP(D65)] by the change of illuminants were calculated. Within each restorative material, DeltaOP and DeltaOP/OP(D65) values were analyzed with two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), with the fixed factors of the shade designation and the combination of illuminants (alpha=0.05).
The occlusal one-third of the crown was removed from six unerupted human third molars; a uniform smear layer was created with 600 grit SiC. The dentin surface was etched with 35% phosphoric acid for 15s before applying BisGMA/HEMA model adhesive using either water wet or ethanol wet bonding technique. Five-micro-thick sections of adhesive/dentin interface specimens were cut and stained with Goldner's trichrome for light microscopy. Companion slabs were analyzed with SEM and micro-Raman spectroscopy.
Camphorquinone (CQ) and OPPI were combined in various proportions with the amine co-initiator 2-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate (DMAEMA) and used at two levels in which CQ + OPPI + DMAEMA = 1 wt.% or 3 wt.% to photoinitiate a BisGMA/BisEMA/TEGDMA (37.5:37.5:25 wt.%) monomer blend.A total of eight groups (four groups for each level of total photoinitiator, 1% and 3%) were tested according to the following proportion of components in the photoinitiator system: Group C: CQ only. Group CO: CQ + OPPI (1:2). Group CA: CQ + DMAEMA (1:2). Group COA: CQ + OPPI + DMAEMA (1:1:1). Each monomer was polymerized using a quartz-halogen curing unit (Demetron 400, Demetron Research Corp., Danbury, CT) with an intensity of 400 mW/cm2 for 5 s, 20 s, 40 s, 60 s, 300 s and their conversion levels (DC) were determined at each exposure time using a Fourier transform infrared spectrophotometer (FTIR).To examine color stability, experimental composite resins were made by mixing 3.2% silanated barium glass (78 wt.%, average filler size; 1 microm) with each monomer system, except both CQ only group and 1% CO group, which were found to cure insufficiently to be able to prepare useful specimens. Disk-shaped samples (10 mm in diameter and 1.5 mm in thickness) were made and stored under the conditions of dry or saline solution at room temperature (25 degrees C) or 60 degrees C water bath. Each CIELAB scale was determined with a colorimeter (CHROMA METER CR-400) at the time of baseline (day after curing), 1 week, 2 weeks, and 4 weeks later.
Different light-curing protocols were used in order to investigate the influence of energy density, power density, and mode of cure on the properties of a model polymer. The modes of cure were continuous, pulse-delay, and stepped irradiation of the specimens. Wallace hardness was used to determine the softening of the polymer after storage in ethanol for 24h. Elution of monomers from the polymer was assessed after 7 days in ethanol by means of high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Data were submitted to two- and three-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), Newman-Keuls' multiple comparison test, and linear regression analysis.
This study was a prospective clinical trial in which 20 consecutive patients requiring an archwire change as part of their course of orthodontic fixed appliance therapy, had either a nickel titanium or stainless steel archwire fitted as deemed clinically necessary. The effect of clinical use was determined by comparing distal end cuts of the "as received" archwires before and after decontamination, with the same retrieved archwires following clinical use and decontamination. Hardness, elastic modulus and surface roughness were determined using an atomic force microscope (AFM) coupled with a nanoindenter.
Variolink 2 (VL2), Multilink Automix (MA), Multilink Sprint (MS, all Ivoclar-Vivadent), Nexus 2 (NX2), Maxcem (MX, both Kerr) and RelyX Unicem (RX, 3M-Espe) were investigated. MS, MX and RX were self-adhesive; others require a bonding-agent. All measurements were conducted at 23 degrees C for 60min (n=5), except 80min for RX, with materials self-cured only (sc) and dual-cured (dc); NX2 and VL2 were additionally light-cured only (lc). S(Y) was measured by the bonded-disk method [Watts DC, Cash AJ. Determination of polymerization shrinkage kinetics in visible-light-cured materials: methods development. Dent Mater 1991;7(4):281-7; Watts DC, Marouf AS. Optimal specimen geometry in bonded-disk shrinkage-strain measurements on light-cured biomaterials. Dent Mater 2000;16(6):447-51]; S(Z) by the Bioman instrument [Watts DC, Satterthwaite JD. Axial shrinkage-stress depends upon both C-factor and composite mass. Dent Mater 2008;24(1):1-8 [Epub October 24, 2007]; Watts DC, Marouf AS, Al-Hindi AM. Photo-polymerization shrinkage-stress kinetics in resin-composites: methods development. Dent Mater 2003;19(1):1-11]. Light-cure was achieved by QTH at 500mW/cm(2). The respective DCs were measured under the same conditions by FTIR-ATR spectroscopy. Data were analyzed by One-Way ANOVA plus Bonferroni test, and by t-test, at p&lt;0.05.
Endothelial cells [human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs)] were examined for FN production and neonatal rat cardiomyocytes for hypertrophy, following incubation with glucose, ET-1, leptin and specific blockers. FN, ET-1, leptin and leptin receptors mRNA expression and FN protein were measured. Myocytes were also morphometrically examined. Furthermore, hearts from streptozotocin-diabetic rats were analysed.
An 8-week, randomized, parallel-group study that enrolled 90 patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, who were randomly assigned to receive either insulin or metformin, was carried out. The doses of insulin and metformin were titrated according to fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) during the 4 weeks; the target of FPG was 126 mg/dL and that of PPG was 160 mg/dL. The blood glucose levels were kept stabilized till the end of the study. The serum concentrations of high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and interleukin (IL)-6 were measured before starting the study and 4 and 8 weeks after initiation of insulin or metformin therapy.
Fifteen sedentary, obese, male participants, who met the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP ATP III) criteria for MetS, were treated with extended-release niacin (Niaspan) for 6 weeks. Blood samples were obtained before and after treatment with niacin.
Segments of saphenous vein were obtained from both normal people and diabetic patients (HbA(1c) &lt; 6.0%) at the time of coronary surgery. Cultured endothelial cells were incubated in the absence/presence of AGEs (2 and 20 microM), and mRNA and protein for both receptor of AGEs (RAGE) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors-gamma (PPAR-gamma) were analysed by real-time polymerised chain reaction (PCR) and Western blot analysis. In the same fashion, the cell release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was estimated in the absence/presence of AGEs by spectrofluorimetric analysis. Finally, neutrophil-endothelial adhesion was evaluated in saphenous vein segments with and without the addition of AGEs.
ES cells differentiated in vitro into insulin-producing cells according to the Lumelsky protocol or a new four-stage differentiation protocol were analysed morphologically before and after implantation for gene expression by in situ reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and protein expression by immunohistochemistry and ultrastructural analysis.
This cross-sectional controlled study evaluated 159 diabetic patients during a 3-min posture test (standing-squatting-standing) with continuous measurement of systolic (SBP), diastolic (DBP) and mean (MBP) blood pressure by a Finapres device. Arterial stiffness was indirectly assessed by PP and the slope of PP as a function of MBP calculated during the whole 3-min test. CAN was assessed by the expiration/inspiration pulse interval ratio (E/I R-R ratio) during deep breathing and by three indices measured during the squatting test. Patients were divided into four groups according to diabetes duration (&lt;10 years, 11-20 years, 21-30 years and &gt; 30 years from group 1 to group 4, respectively) and compared with age-matched non-diabetic subjects.
Thirty-five patients with LADA were randomly assigned to receive subcutaneous insulin alone (n = 18) or insulin plus 1-alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 (1-alpha(OH)D3; 0.5 microg per day) (n = 17) for 1 year. Plasma C-peptide levels in fasting state (FCP) and 2 h after 75-g glucose load (PCP) were measured every 6 months with radioimmunoassay.
Y1 cells were incubated for 7 days with either normal or high glucose (HG, 30 mmol/L) concentrations, with or without antioxidant treatment. Parameters of oxidative stress and expression levels of haeme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), nitrite levels, L-arginine uptake and progesterone production were determined.
Selective literature research, with consideration of the authors' own publications.
150 patients (110 men and 40 women, aged 66.1 +/- 1.7 years) underwent cardiorespiratory polygraphy, capillary blood gas analysis, measurement of NT-proBNP, and echocardiography to determine the diameter of the left atrium (LAD) and the peak systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAP).
We measured total BPA concentration by mass spectrometry in first-morning urine samples from 60 premenopausal women. We selected from each woman's stored daily collections three urine samples approximately 2 and 4 weeks apart. Samples were selected from both the follicular and luteal phases of the menstrual cycle to assess cycle effects. Temporal variability was assessed with mixed model regression and correlations.
Asthmatic children (N=300) aged 4-12 years were followed for 1 year. Household dust samples from two indoor locations were analyzed for allergens including dust mite (Der p 1, Der f 1), cat (Fel d 1), dog (Can f 1), cockroach (Bla g 1). Daily symptoms and medication use were collected in monthly telephone interviews. Annual disease severity was examined in models including allergens, specific IgE sensitivity and adjusted for age, gender, atopy, ethnicity, and mother's education.
RF-EMF exposure of 166 volunteers from Basel, Switzerland, was measured with personal exposure meters (exposimeters). Participants carried an exposimeter for 1 week (two separate weeks in 32 participants) and completed an activity diary. Mean values were calculated using the robust regression on order statistics (ROS) method.
Seventeen metals (including Cd, Co, Cu, Pb, U) and non-metals (including As) were measured by ICP-MS in urine spot samples from 351 subjects (32% women), aged 2-74 yr (mean 33 yr). Forty subjects (controls) lived 400 km outside the mining area; 311 subjects lived in the mining area, either very close (&lt; 3 km) (n=179; 6 communities) or moderately close (3-10 km) (n=132; 4 communities) to mines or smelting plants.
The levels of lead and mercury exposure of students were determined by blood, urine, and hair analyses (ICP-MS, CV-AAS). Genotyping of common polymorphisms was examined by MALDI-TOF MS and the TaqMan methodology. Associations between lead and mercury exposures and genetic background were examined by bivariate analysis, and by categorical regression analysis (CATREG) controlled by metal- and matrix-specific variables.
We compared PM(2.5) concentrations calculated by the ExTra index to reference measures (passive samplers situated under the covered part of the playground), in 15 schools in Bordeaux, in 2000. First, we collected the input data required by the ExTra index: background and local pollution depending on traffic, meteorology and topography. Second, the ExTra index was calculated for each school. Statistical analysis consisted of a graphic description; then, we calculated an intraclass correlation coefficient.
In this article, we describe a method (SALSAstand) to effectively elevate, offload, and protect the foot with an external fixation device, while also promoting flap healing, maintaining tendon correction, and limiting the tendon retraction and contracture that is commonly seen following a foot-salvage procedure in high-risk patients.
For the measurement of the activity of class I and II ADH isoenzymes and ALDH activity the fluorometric methods was employed. The total ADH activity and activity of class III and IV isoenzymes was measured by the photometric method. The study material consisted of vessels wall samples obtained from 45 abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Immunoperoxidase-staining methods and specific monoclonal antibodies were used to examine the expression of p53, BCL-2 and EGF-R in partial and complete moles (10 cases each). Trophoblastic tissue from first trimester terminations of pregnancy (non-molar tissue, 20 specimens) served as a control group. The data were evaluated to determine variations in the expression pattern among the molar and non-molar tissues.
HE staining was used for the measurement of cardiac hypertrophy. Immunohistochemical technique was used to evaluate the location of alpha-enolase. The expressions of alpha-enolase in the left cardiac ventricles at different development times were examined by Real-time RT-PCR and Western blot.
A total of 132 patients were studied. Treatment duration was 3 months, followed by a 2 months follow-up period.
In both 2002 and 2005, anonymous postal surveys were sent out, involving eight criteria pertaining to three main areas to assess compliance, to 245 hepatogastroenterologists based in private and public hospitals, and in the community, in a specific region of France. The multifaceted intervention was based on reminders, conferences, postal campaigns and esophageal mapping. Main outcome measures were based on biopsies for diagnosis, surveillance intervals and management of patients with high-grade dysplasia.
In 183 consecutive cases of scleroderma, as diagnosed by American College of Rheumatology criteria (1980). Patients' mean age was 40.6+/-13.3 years, the gender ratio was 0.13 and the average duration of disease was 6.8+/-7.5 years. A localized, cutaneous form was observed in 148 patients (81%) and a diffuse form in 35 (19%). All patients underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and standard esophageal manometry.
We performed a cross-sectional study in 165 inmates with chronic hepatitis C and liver biopsy from two Spanish prisons. LF was staged according to the Metavir Index and was subsequently reclassified as mild or absent (LF&lt;or=1), significant (LF&gt;or=2) or serious (LF&gt;or=3). APRI and FIB-4 were calculated in all patients. The predictive value was calculated by the area under the curve and the optimal cut-off was obtained based on the best specificity value for each LF stage. Then, we analyzed the sensitivity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for each cut-off point.
A cross-sectional study was performed. We applied a questionnaire that included sociodemographic variables, types of food, identification of IBS by the Rome III criteria, the Zung self-rating depression scale, the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) test and self-reported use of medical services among a random sample of an adult population in Bucaramanga. Univariate analysis and logistic regression was used to establish associations.
Grounded theory using a mix of systematic coding, data analysis, and theoretical sampling was performed. Spouses, 10 women and 3 men between 39 and 85 years, were interviewed.
For the purposes of the study, a qualitative methodology using intepretative phenomenologic analysis was used. Semistructured interviews were conducted with 11 couples. Patients were predominantly male, aged between 50 and 70 years, and partners were aged between 45 and 64 years. All couples were married.
A secondary analysis was used to investigate the relationships among social support, depression, functional status, and postoperative length of stay. Included were 70 patients undergoing first-time CABG. Patients had a mean age of 72 years and were primarily white (94%) and male (66%). Complete data were collected on 63 participants.
HRQoL was measured by the 15D in 3 stages: 1, 6, and 12 months after CABG. The focus in this study is on HRQoL at the second (6 months) and third (12 months) stages of the recovery process. Stepwise linear regression analysis was used to identify the associations of independent variables with HRQoL.
A Swedish national survey was carried out to obtain knowledge on the information provided by cardiac health care professionals on the subject of sexual function and coexistence after an MI. It consisted of a questionnaire that was designed, tested, and sent to 121 coronary care units.
ICU patients requiring mechanical ventilation and sedation were monitored using the SAS and BIS. Nurses initiated event markers with BIS at the time of SAS assessment but were blinded to BIS scores.
We performed a comprehensive literature search. The extracted data from selected studies were used to construct a regression model and evaluate the effect of treatment, time on medication, severity of illness, age, gender, and number of previous episodes.
We conducted an open-label 12-week trial of duloxetine 60 mg daily in 15 patients with IBS without concurrent major depressive disorder. The primary outcome measure was average abdominal pain. Secondary measures included IBS symptoms, Clinical Global Impression-Severity, Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale, IBS Quality-of-Life Scale, and Sheehan Disability Scale. We analyzed changes using random regression and one-sample t-tests.
Analysis of pre- and post-treatment PRL levels collected prospectively per protocol in a non-randomized study of 26 melperone-, 76 clozapine-, and 66 neuroleptic-treated patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Cross-sectional analysis of a larger sample of patients with PRL data was also performed.
Reviews of four key areas were conducted: commonly used techniques in the assessment of wakefulness; neurobiology of sleep/wake and cognition; targets of wake promoting and/or cognition enhancing drugs; and ongoing clinical trials investigating wake promoting effects.
A group of 79 nurses from seven emergency departments assessed simulated patient cases and assigned triage categories using the same principles as in their daily work. K statistics, accuracy, over-triage and under-triage were then analyzed. The nurses performed 1027 triage assessments.
Evidence was collated using electronic databases; Pubmed, Ovid, Medline and Cochrane library. Search terms included [torus fractures; buckle fractures; splinting distal radius fractures; paediatric wrist fractures; paediatric forearm fractures/injuries; cast versus splint]. Searches identified papers published between 1984 and June 2008.
60 symptomatic allergic patients were enrolled. A group of 50 healthy subjects was included as a control. Serum sHLA-G and sHLA-A, -B, -C levels were determined by an immunoenzymatic method. Allergy severity was assessed by VAS for symptoms and drug use.
We clinically scored the uveitis over time in B10.RIII, C57BL/6, and melanocortin 5 receptor knock-out (MC5r((-/-))) mice with experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) that were conjunctively injected with a naked DNA plasmid encoding ACTH1-17 at the time of EAU onset and three days later. The post-EAU retina histology of plasmid injected eyes was examined, and post-EAU concentrations of alpha-MSH in aqueous humor was assayed by ELISA.
Twelve patients were enrolled in this study. At PVAN diagnosis, MMF was replaced by leflunomide. Other immunosuppressive drug doses and levels were maintained unchanged. T-cell functions, i.e., intralymphocyte cytokine expression (IL-2 and TNF-alpha), T-cell activation [i.e., transferrin receptor (CD71) and interleukin (IL)-2 alpha-chain (CD25) expression], and T-cell proliferation were measured using a flow-cytometry whole-blood assay before and at one month after conversion.
We studied 1,220 adult past and current smokers drawn from a national face-to-face interview survey administered in 2004. We defined two types of cues possibly triggering a smoker to have a cigarette: peer cues and psychological cues. We used ordinary least square linear regressions to analyze smoking amount and response to peer and psychological distress cues.
The present study combines classical bibliometric tools with novel scientometric and visualizing techniques in order to analyse and categorise research in the field of tobacco control.
The following parameters were evaluated using "Before-After-Control-Impact" (BACI) design: frequency and geographic extent of larval production, intensity of larval production, changes in larval habitat, and number of larvicide applications. The analyses were performed using Moran's I, Getis-Ord, and Spatial Scan statistics on aggregated before and after data as well as data collected over time. This allowed comparison of control and treatment areas to identify changes attributable to the OMWM/marsh restoration modifications.
Review of literature material and other documents produced by or relating to INAHTA.
Review of relevant literature and other documents related to HTA in Australia.
System analysis of structures and institutions and their use of HTA.
The information included in the overview is based on legal documents and publicly available year reports of the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE).
Analysis of key documents (e.g. literature, laws, and other official documentation) and personal experiences.
Relying on multiple historical literature and other documents as well as drawing on personal experiences and observations, we describe, evaluate, and explain the evolving and dynamic HTA-related evidence landscape.
The Danish Institute for HTA was established in the National Board of Health in 1997 with responsibility for coordination and production of HTA. A local government reform from 2007 provides several new challenges to HTA and its coordination.
Founded in 1978, the Italian National Health Service (NHS) has been strongly regionalized mainly after a constitutional reform, which started a devolution process. HTA started in the 1980s at the National Institute of Health and in a few University Hospitals, with a focus on big ticket technology: that process was driven by clinical engineers.
The approach used here is a historical review of facts and landmarks.
The method used in this study was a historical analysis based mainly on the knowledge of the authors, but supplemented by the published literature.
A general examination of some pre-HTA activities, as consensus conferences, closer reading of all background papers to the establishment of an HTA agency in Norway, the ongoing activities of this agency, its evaluation, and its merge into a broader knowledge center for the health services were performed. All information and statements are the authors' own understandings, but also were reviewed by some of the people taken part in these processes.
The methods used are a review of important materials that have described the development process and present situation, supplemented by some personal experiences.
Analysis of public documents, personal communication, and literative review.
The Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Unit was set up in Malaysia in August 1995 in the Ministry of Health Malaysia and has since grown tremendously in size and resources. To date, forty-three in-depth assessments have been carried out, and the recommendations of these assessments were subsequently implemented. In addition, approximately 140 rapid assessment reports were produced in response to requests from policy and decision makers. HTA has been able to provide input into formulation of national and Ministry of Health Malaysia policies, and provide a basis for clinical practice guidelines development, input into purchasing decisions, regulation of drugs, as well as advertisements related to health.
This study was conducted through extensive document reviews including these published in both domestic and international literature.
The study is a discussion/review based largely on the experiences of the authors, but supported by available literature.
Information was gathered through a bibliographic search and interviews with actors involved in HTA in Mexico.
The approach was a descriptive review done by people who have been very much involved in this history.
The beginnings of HTA in this region go back to the work of Dr. David Banta in China and the establishment of the Asian HTA Network. The Network embarked on increasing awareness and building capacity among personnel from the region. Attempts were made to introduce HTA in countries where it did not exist, as well as to strengthen existing HTA programs. The Network had regular meetings, and also carried out a study on the diffusion and utilization of magnetic resonance imaging in the region. In an attempt to boost the efforts of the Network, the author spearheaded the organization of the Asian Regional HTA Conferences in Kuala Lumpur in 2000 and 2003, and in Manila, Philippines, in 2004. In addition, the author carried out a survey on HTA in the region. There are two broad categories of countries in the region: Australia, Malaysia, Singapore, New Zealand, China, Philippines, Korea, Thailand, and Taiwan, which have formal HTA programs, and others for which informal mechanisms or related activities exist, which include Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam.
This article is a descriptive review from two people who have been very much involved in the events described and is based on review of relevant policy documents and Web sites.
A survey to summarize the evolution of HTA was sent to representatives of different HTA initiatives in Spain.
A new national health insurance program began to be implemented in the Philippines in 1995 after passage of the Health Insurance Act.
This report is a descriptive analysis based on personal experiences of the authors and on selected literature.
The case study of the history of development of HTA in Lithuania is presented.
The study depends very much on the extensive experiences of the authors in involvement of HTA in China. In addition, literature review and Web site searching have been used to trace the process of growth of HTA in China.
A single center randomized controlled trial of bright light therapy versus standard light was carried out. The study was completed prior to the mandatory registration of randomized controls on the clinical trials registry database and, owing to delays in writing up, retrospective registration was not completed.
The Korean Longitudinal Study on Health and Aging (KLoSHA) was designed as a population-based prospective cohort study on the health and aging of Korean adults aged 65 years and over. We evaluated 1000 of 1118 randomly selected subjects in terms of activities-specific balance confidence (ABC) and performance in regard to balance and gait (POMA). Activities of daily living (ADL) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) were assessed to measure disability. Pain-related dysfunctions, depression and cognitive functions were assessed. Next, we assessed the relationship between balance confidence and physical performance and functioning by sex and age.
A nationwide representative face-to-face household survey was conducted in Germany. A representative sample of the German population aged 61 years or older (N = 1513 participants, N = 239 displaced in WWII) was approached using 258 sample points. Measurements included depressive symptoms (PHQ-2), anxiety (GAD-7), resilience (RS-11), general and domain-specific life satisfaction (FLZ(M)) and sociodemographic variables.
Eighteen studies addressing sleep/night-time disturbances among other neuropsychiatric symptoms in individuals with MCI were identified through a search of databases and an examination of reference lists of selected papers. Fifteen of those studies reported data on prevalence or severity of sleep/night-time disturbances.
A postal survey was sent to all Australian memory clinics identified by key specialists working in dementia assessment services.
A retrospective analysis was undertaken of routinely collected data (age, gender, ethnicity, admission diagnosis, psychiatric diagnosis, Mini-mental State Examination score, whether capacity was assessed, the outcome of that assessment, and discharge destination) on referrals to a liaison psychiatry service for older people (2003-2006) from medical and surgical teams at a large London teaching hospital.
Comprehensive searches were undertaken of the PubMed, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Health-Source Nursing electronic databases between 1980 and 2007 in order to identify studies that examined cognitive differences between drivers aged over 55 years who either passed or failed a driving assessment. Twenty-one studies were eligible for inclusion. Weighted Cohen's d effect sizes, percentage overlap statistics, Fail-safe Ns and 95% CIs were calculated for all cognitive tests.
The cross-sectional study was carried out as an anonymous written survey of family caregivers of dementia patients in four regions of Germany. With a 20% response it was possible to analyze the quantitative and qualitative data from 404 and 254 family caregivers respectively. Predictors for utilization were evaluated using binary logistic regression analysis. The answers to questions of quality were evaluated using qualitative content analysis.
We reviewed the research published to date on EOD, and divided the current body of knowledge into several main sections.
Thirty-six participants, aged 71-102 years, were compared using a non-randomized two-group design with continuous measures. APOE genotype was obtained by buccal swab. BSD, including restlessness, escape restraint, tapping and banging, searching and wandering, pacing and walking, and vocalization, were measured using the Modified Agitated Behavior Rating Scale. Participants were observed every 20 minutes for 12 hours per day for five days. Each participant's mean behavior scores were compared according to the presence or absence of the APOE epsilon4 allele.
Volunteers underwent a screening interview, had comprehensive cognitive testing, gave 80 ml of blood, and completed health and lifestyle questionnaires. One quarter of the sample also underwent amyloid PET brain imaging with Pittsburgh compound B (PiB PET) and MRI brain imaging, and a subgroup of 10% had ActiGraph activity monitoring and body composition scanning.
Possible changes in rates of attempted suicides in elderly age-bands over a nine-year period and the correlation between rates of attempted suicide and suicide in elderly age-bands in England were examined using nationally collected data.
We interviewed 220 family carers of people consecutively referred to psychiatric services with dementia in Essex and London (U.K.), using the MCTS to measure abuse. We defined abuse cases using (1) the MCTS conventional scoring system; (2) the Pillemer criteria; and (3) clinical judgment of an expert panel.
We conducted a retrospective analysis of 170 AD patients (probable AD = 83; possible AD = 87) originally enrolled in a case-control study, 27 with postmortem examination, to establish the number of cases meeting probable diagnosis for FTD and DLB, using a checklist of features compiled from their consensus criteria.
The charts of elderly outpatients with mania and unipolar depression in tertiary care settings were reviewed and relevant information incorporated regarding clinical presentation, past and family history of affective disorder, treatment history and previous psychiatric and neurological history.
We undertook critical discourse analysis of obituaries in representative national and local newspapers in Canada and the U.K.
One hundred participants were recruited from in-patients in a geriatric hospital in Melbourne, Australia. Anxiety and depression were assessed shortly after admission, and again two months later, using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Geriatric Mental Status Schedule/ AGECAT diagnostic system.
A database search for population studies on rates of dementia in LA was performed. Abstracts were also included in the search. Authors of the publications were invited to participate in this collaborative study by sharing missing or more recent data analysis with the group.
Qualitative interviews were conducted with 23 family members and seven older care recipients. Interviews were analyzed thematically.
Health records of adult patients who experienced hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia, or hypophosphataemia in the ICU during the study periods were retrospectively reviewed. Effectiveness of the ERP was assessed by the number of replacement doses indicated but not given and the number of doses and total dose required to normalise the low electrolyte level. Timeliness was evaluated by the time between the laboratory reporting the low electrolyte level and administration of the replacement dose. Nurse and physician satisfaction with the ERP was assessed through a written survey.
A written survey method was used, questionnaires were sent to ICU nurses specialised in mechanical ventilation in 115 Dutch hospitals. The questions related to following domains: (1) demographics; (2) use of MH; (3) presumed benefits; (4) essential elements of the MH procedure; (5) equipment and safety.
Nineteen nurses from one CVICU consented to being interviewed individually regarding their experiences caring for patients approaching the end of life, and specifically regarding the initiation of a change in code status. Investigators used a qualitative descriptive approach to collect and analyse the data. Transcript data were analysed and as concepts emerged they were compared with those from earlier interviews to establish similarities and differences. Investigators reached consensus about the major themes.
This was a qualitative study that employed focus group discussions (FGDs) among adolescent girls (10-19 years) and key informant (KI) interviews with health workers. Age for FGD participants ranged from 16 to 19 years. The FGD participants were recruited while seeking antenatal care for their first pregnancy or immunization service for their first child, not being older than 6 months. Six health facilities were selected. Key informants were purposefully selected on the basis of being in-charge of maternity units. Thirteen FGDs comprising of a total of 92 adolescent girls were conducted. The FGDs were held with homogeneously constituted categories; married pregnant adolescents (5), unmarried pregnant adolescents (3) and married or not married adolescents with children (5). Semi structured interviews were held with six KIs who were in-charge of maternity units of health facilities. Latent content analysis technique was used for data analysis.
In the design of the algorithm we use techniques from classical scheduling theory. In addition, due to some special properties and constraints, we model the problem using methods from graph theory. The resulting algorithm combines both approaches in a transparent manner.
Observations, semi-structured interviews, and photographing were used to collect data. Participants were six nurse coordinators in a high-volume trauma hospital. Content analysis was carried out and interactions with information tools were analyzed.
Seventy-two international experts in the field of CCT independently rated all 39 indications listed in the original 2006 appropriateness statement. Indications were classified as either "appropriate," "uncertain," or "inappropriate" based on an assessment of the clinical balance between risk and benefit to the patient in daily practice. Median rater scores were considered to represent current opinion for each indication and were compared with the original value in the 2006 document.
High-pitch modes were used in patients undergoing CCTA with a dual-source CT system. Diagnostic image quality for cardiac structures and coronary arteries was assessed. Radiation dose was estimated from the scanner-generated dose-length product (DLP).
HDCT and SDCT stent imaging was performed with the use of an ex vivo phantom. HDCT was compared with SDCT with both smooth and sharp kernels for stent intraluminal diameter, intraluminal area, and image noise. Intrastent visualization was assessed with an ASIR algorithm on HDCT scans, compared with the filtered backprojection algorithms by SDCT.
Two hundred patients underwent clinically directed cardiac scanning (100 kVp, n=9 or 120 kVp, n=191; range, 300-580 mA). Effective radiation dose (in mSv) was estimated from extended dose-length product. For heart rates (HRs) &lt;65 beats/min, exposure phase was 65% up to the end of R wave of the cardiac cycle, using a one-heart beat acquisition and half-scan reconstruction. HRs from 66 to 79 beats/min and &gt; or =80 beats/min were scanned with either 2- or 3-heart beat acquisitions, respectively. Patients with arrhythmias were not excluded.
We designed a single-center, randomized controlled trial that compares MPI and CTA as the initial modality for the evaluation of patients hospitalized for chest pain without known CAD or acute myocardial infarction. Patients with intermediate-risk characteristics and a clinical need for noninvasive imaging are included. The primary outcome measured is the incidence of conventional angiography not leading to subsequent coronary revascularization within 1 year. The study is powered to detect a reduction from 11% to 3% in catheterization not leading to an intervention with a sample size of 400. Secondary outcomes include procedural complications and posttest renal dysfunction (safety outcomes), major adverse cardiovascular events, length of hospital stay, subsequent hospitalizations and imaging, changes in medical management, and tolerability of the noninvasive test.
All CCTAs performed in the ED at Lenox Hill Hospital were reviewed for clinical indications and subsequent course; patients with documented acute myocardial infarction were identified.
Experimental study.
The Department of Biochemistry, University of Karachi, from June to August 2005.
The study was conducted on 24 male albino Wistar rats. Sugar containing diet was prepared by mixing standard rodent diet and table sugar in the ratio of 3:1 (w/w) and rats were fed freely on this diet. Control rats were fed freely on standard rodent diet. After five weeks of treatment, control and sugar diet treated animals were injected with 8-OH-DPAT, at a dose of 0.5 mg/ml/kg, to monitor the effects of drug on food intake and brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) metabolism. Dissected neural tissue was analyzed electrochemically and findings were compared by Newman-Keuls test.
Descriptive study.
This study was conducted at Combined Military Hospital (CMH), Multan, Pakistan, from 2002 to 2004.
There were 291 male soldiers between ages 30 and 45 years who presented with chest pain and had normal resting ECG. All patients were subjected to ETT. Positive ETT cases had Coronary Angiogram (CA) as the gold standard. Negative cases were subjected to TST. Normal CA cases also had TST to rule out microvascular disease. Those with normal ETT and positive CAD risk factors also had TST. Those with negative TST had CA as service requirement.
Observational.
Baqai Dental College Hospital, Karachi, from November 2005 to May 2006.
One hundred patients were assigned for single-visit root canal treatment. Patients that defaulted after the first appointment (incomplete treatment) were excluded from the study. For each tooth treated, the clinical factors and conditions existing before and after the completion of treatment were recorded. This data included patient's age, gender, type of tooth, pre-operative status of pulp and periapical tissues and recording pain and swelling (flare-ups) postoperatively after 1 day, 7 days and 1 month. The significance of results was obtained by applying paired-sample t-test and Pearson X2 test.
Case series study.
South and West Surgical Ward, Mayo Hospital, Lahore, from January 2001 to December 2007.
All patients referred electively or admitted through OPD presenting with features of progressive dysphagia due to malignancy were included in the study. The patients were investigated for site of stricture and extent of growth into the surrounding structures. All underwent transhiatal esophagectomy and gastric tube or colon was used as the conduit to restore continuity. Patients with squamous cell variety were referred to oncology department for chemoradiotherapy postoperatively. Morbidity and in-hospital mortality were recorded.
Cross-sectional study.
The study was carried out in the Department of Pathology (Histopathology), Army Medical College, Rawalpindi, from March 2006 to March 2007.
Patients who had undergone a liver biopsy for evaluation of hepatitis C virus infection were included in the study. Demographic characteristics and laboratory data were collected at the time of biopsy. First hundred biopsy specimens meeting the inclusion criteria were assessed for steatosis, necro-inflammation and fibrosis.
Case-control study.
National Institute of Cardiovascular Disease and General Practitioner's Clinics, Karachi, from 2005 to 2007.
The study was conducted on 276 participants aged 25-65 years and classified into four categories of control, prehypertension (pre-HTN), hypertension (HTN) stage I and II, according to 7th JNC report. Anthropometric measurements and blood chemistry were obtained. The relationship between obesity indices (Body Mass Index [BMI], Waist Circumference [WC], Waist Hip Ratio [WHpR], Waist Height Ratio [WHtR], Basal Metabolic Rate [BMR] and Cardiovascular Disease [CVD] risk factors [blood pressure, serum lipids and glucose levels]) were investigated. The analysis of variance and test of Pearson's coefficient correlation were applied to assess relationship of all the variables.
Case control.
It was carried out at the Department of Paediatrics, Kharadar General Hospital, Karachi, from August 2003 to April 2004.
Children of the age of 6 months to 3 years with clinical, biochemical and radiological evidence of vitamin- D deficiency rickets were included. The history, clinical examination, complete blood picture, serum calcium. Phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase and X-ray of wrist joint were done. The children were divided into two groups A and B. Group A was given oral vitamin-D and group B was given intramuscular injection of vitamin-D on the first day and then they were followed for two more visits at 30 and 90 days with clinical, biochemical and radiological examinations to assess the outcome.
Cohort study.
Obstetric Department of Sir Syed Trust Hospital, Karachi, from January to December 2007.
All antenatal patients attending the Outpatient Department were interviewed, after informed consent. Those who fulfilled the required criteria were grouped in 2 categories; high risk (group A cases) and low risk (group B control) pregnancies according to the risk factors identified in the history. All singleton pregnancies from 28th weeks of gestation till delivery were included in the study. All pregnant women, who had multiple pregnancies or congenital malformations were excluded. Patients were followed till delivery and neonatal outcome was assessed in both the groups. Outcome measures were recorded.
Case series.
Department of Ophthalmology, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Karachi, from May 2005 to May 2006.
Fifty patients with history of ocular foreign body were admitted through outpatient department and emergency. History, visual acuity, ocular and general examination was done. The foreign body was localized with the radiograph of the skull and ultrasonography. Primary repair was done in patients with open wounds. Pars plana vitrectomy, magnetic or forceps extraction of foreign body was done as required visual outcomes and complications were noted.
Descriptive.
Department of Diarrhea Treatment Unit (DTU), Dow Medical College and Civil Hospital, Karachi, from November 1998 to April 2001.
Paediatric patients between the ages of &gt; 1 month to 15 years were included, who visited the DTU of the department with diarrhea. Stool samples of all these patients were checked under microscope for the vegetative forms of Entamoeba Histolytica (E.H.). Patients who were positive for E.H. were evaluated for the symtomatology including the type of diarrhea {acute watery diarrhea (AWD) or dysentery}, abdominal pain, tenesmus and nausea/vomiting. Examination carried out was assessed for state of hydration, fever and anaemia and nutritional status of those less than 5 years of age. The patients were divided into three age groups to assess the association of the age with severity and type of clinical presentation. Chi- square test was applied to calculate the p-values. P-values of 0.05 or less were considered statistically significant.
We performed model calculations from cross sectional growth data of healthy and CF-children to assess the methodological limitations of %IBW calculation.
In CF children infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, downloaded data from an AAD device was used to calculate morning, evening and overall monthly adherence to antibiotic therapy over a year.
9 patients with CF and ABPA (4 male, 5 female, ages 7-36 years) received HDIVPM (10-15 mg/kg/d), for 3 days per month, and itraconazole, until clinical and laboratory resolution of ABPA.
We report a case of pyomyositis of the forearm caused by Bcc infection in a patient with CF. We also briefly discuss the management of pyomyositis.
We conducted 25 in-depth qualitative interviews using the Day Reconstruction Method and 9 cognitive interviews at two CF programs, the University of Washington and Seattle Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center. The interviews were audio-recorded and transcribed, and then coded and analyzed for themes relating to pulmonary symptoms and related psychosocial impacts.
Men attending 5 adult CF clinics in Australasia completed a survey of SRH knowledge, attitudes and behaviours.
Data from hospital records were obtained from 3 major government hospitals. All hospital visits were stratified by age group and category of CVD. Daily PM(10) and O(3) levels reported by the Pollution Control Department from April 2002 to December 2006 (1736 days) were used in a time-series analysis with a generalized additive model procedure.
We analyzed height records for 33 000 21-year-old male military recruits, sampling 1000 per year from 1972 through 2006. We compared the height trend in Thailand to those noted in Europe, and discuss the former in the context of improvements in living circumstances in Thailand.
We studied 200 patients among whom ESRD had been newly diagnosed between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005; 200 controls were selected from among relatives of patients treated in the general surgery unit. Using a structured questionnaire, we collected information related to socioeconomic factors, history of disease, regular blood or urine screening, lifestyle, environmental exposure, consumption of vitamin supplements, and regular drug use at 5 years before disease onset.
A population-based cross sectional study of 865 participants (age: 20-69 years old, men: 46.5%) was conducted in 4 cities in Japan. Nine sociodemographic attributes (sex, age, location of residence, educational attainment, marital status, employment status, presence of dependents in the household, self-rated health, body mass index), along with exercise frequency and perception of barriers to exercise (discomfort, lack of motivation, lack of time, lack of social support, poor environment) were assessed by self-administered questionnaire.
Data were collected from 2002 through 2007 from patients who sought treatment for gastrointestinal symptoms or signs at a university clinic and subsequently underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
A total of 18,833 black and white participants from the US national REasons For Geographic And Racial Differences In Stroke (REGARDS) study were included in this analysis. Levels of sensitivity to detect AF, from least to most sensitive, were created for combinations of self-report (SR) and ECG methods, as follows: (1) SR plus ECG, (2) ECG alone, (3) SR alone, and (4) SR or ECG. Geographic regions were dichotomized as Stroke Belt (the southern US states) and non-Stroke Belt. Logistic regression analysis estimated the odd ratios of AF associated with the Stroke Belt and black ethnicity for each diagnostic combination.
Data from the National Notifiable Disease Reporting System from 1990 to 2007 and the Emergency Events Reporting System from 2004 to 2007 were reviewed and epidemiologic characteristics analyzed. Hepatitis A vaccine distribution between 1992 and 2007 was also reviewed.
We conducted a comparative ecological study of Spanish provinces, with colorectal cancer mortality as the dependent variable and per capita consumption of P ovata by province and year as the independent variable. Associations were analyzed by calculating Spearman's correlation coefficients and a Poisson multiple regression model.
4.
5.
5.
2.
4.
4.
4.
4.
4.
4.
4.
4.
4.
4.
Videos were taken of the lesions and shown to two readers who were asked to identify the gaps ranging from less than 0.1 mm-9.8 mm.
We performed an analysis of the NYHA III/IV 839 patients randomized in the MIRACLE (n = 470) and MIRACLE-ICD (n = 369) trials. Both included patients with moderate to severe HF, ejection fraction (EF) &lt;or=35%, and QRS duration &gt;or=130 msec. Patients were grouped by age &lt;65, 65-75, and &gt;75 years. For each group, patients with CRT activated (ON) were compared with patients with CRT inactivated (OFF) for end points at 6 months, including New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class and EF.
We retrospectively reviewed clinical data of all CRT-D implantations over a 21-month period. We compared a randomly selected contemporaneous group undergoing implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) implantations as a reference group. Procedure protocol involved intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring throughout the case. Lidocaine (1%) was routinely used along with propofol for sedation in all patients. Procedure time was defined as the time from initial administration of lidocaine for arterial line access, to completion of defibrillator pocket closure. Cumulative dose of propofol was calculated in each patient. Hypotension was defined as a fall in the systolic blood pressure of &gt;or=30% from baseline or a systolic blood pressure of &lt;or=80 mm Hg for &gt;3 min. CRT-D and ICD patients were divided into hypotensive and non-hypotensive subsets.
Patients underwent 3-D electroanatomical contact mapping prior to catheter ablation. The site of the earliest left atrial (LA) activation was determined.
Both stroke subjects with hemiparesis and able-bodied subjects used the force-reflecting joystick to complete a suite of goal-directed tasks under various task settings. Kinematic metrics, developed for specific types of goal-directed tasks, were used to assess various aspects of upper-extremity motor performance across subjects.
Treatment parameters were statistically analyzed. Clinical outcome was assessed by matched-pair analysis based on the treatment device, differences in dose prescription, and the date of the treatment. Patients were matched according to their tumor size, age, gender, primary cancer, and Radiation Therapy Oncology Group score. Survival post-radiosurgery, local and distant tumor control, and complications were analyzed. Predictive factors were investigated.
Using a cross-sectional design, consecutive patients with recurrent glioma performed a six minute walk (6MW) test to assess functional capacity. Performance status was assessed using Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) scoring system. QOL was assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain scale. Self-reported exercise behavior was assessed using the Godin Leisure Time Exercise Questionnaire (GLTEQ).
A retrospective analysis on 160 adult patients (&gt; or =16 years) treated for histologically confirmed GBM between 2003 and 2005 at our Institution was performed. All patients were treated with conventional fractionated radiotherapy and a combined chemotherapy treatment with Cisplatin (CDDP) (100 mg/sqm on day 1) and carmustine (BCNU) (160 mg/sqm on day 2); the treatment was repeated every 6 weeks for five cycles. Toxicity, progression free survival and overall survival were assessed.
In this retrospective study, 51 patients with histopathologically confirmed primary cerebral gliomas who had undergone conventional MR imaging, dynamic contrast-enhanced T2*-weighted perfusion MR imaging and diffusion MR imaging were included. A retrospective blinded analysis of the imaging findings including the perfusion and diffusion parameters was done. The rCBV measurements were obtained from regions of maximum perfusion. Minimum ADC values were obtained from the region of maximum hypointensity within the tumor and from the corresponding opposite white matter. Tumor grade determined with the two methods were then compared with the histopathologic grade. Mann-Whitney tests were performed to compare the DWI and PWI between tumor types. Receiver operating characteristic analyses were performed to determine optimum thresholds for tumor grading and also to calculate the sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV for identifying high-grade gliomas.
This study includes melanoma &gt; or =7 mm in initial height, or juxtapapillary and/or juxtamacular tumors (height &gt; or =3 mm; posterior tumor margin extending to within 3 mm of optic disk rim and/or fovea). Patients were excluded if they presented evidence of echographic extrascleral tumor extension, neovascular glaucoma, or any form of pretreatment or metastases at baseline. The eye was stabilized by the same ophthalmologist via peribulbar injection of 5 cc 2% lidocaine. CyberKnife radiosurgery was performed delivering a total dose of 60 Gy to the 80% or 85% isodose line in three fractions. The planning target volume (PTV) included the contrast-enhancing lesion on MRI plus a 1-mm margin (no margin on fovea site).
Twenty-four human pituitary adenomas (14 prolactinomas and 10 gonadotrope tumors) were examined for the expression of both ER mRNA and D2R mRNA by means of semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis.
From August 2007 to April 2008, 150 consecutive adult (&gt;18 years) primary brain tumor patients (median age 40 years; male 88, female 62) registered in a general out-patient neuro-oncology clinic were accrued and detailed data were recorded. Seventy percent had malignant tumor (66% high-grade and 34% low-grade; 70% intra-axial). Glioblastoma (GBM) (23.3%), anaplastic astrocytoma (AA) (18.7%), and diffuse fibrillary astrocytoma (18.7%) were the commonest histologic subtypes. The common sites for tumors included frontal region (30.7%), posterior fossa (12%), and left parietal region (11.3%). A detailed baseline pre-radiotherapy (pre-RT) ADL assessment was done with the FIM-FAM scoring system, which has seven domains with 30 sub-domains (maximum and minimum total scores are 210 and 30).
We conducted a prospective study of all consecutive stroke patients admitted to our hospital from March 2003 to July 2007, presenting with signs of acute stroke within the therapeutic window, who had undergone either intravenous or combined intravenous and intra-arterial thrombolysis. All patients were evaluated by a complete stroke CT protocol, transcranial color-coded duplex sonographic monitoring, follow-up imaging (CT or MRI) and clinical outcome at 3 months, as assessed by the modified Rankin scale (mRS).
A prospective, multicenter study was conducted in France to evaluate embolization of BAVM with onyx. From May 2003 to March 2005, 50 patients (26 females, 24 males; mean age: 34.8 years, range: 16-64years) were included. Clinical presentation was haemorrhage in 22 patients (44.0%), seizures in 16 patients (32.0%), headaches in six patients (12.0%) and progressive neurological deficit in two cases (4.0%). Four patients were asymptomatic (8.0%).
Review of the literature but essentially informed by the authors personal vision relating to the future of health practitioner education.
A Delphi survey was performed in two rounds. Questionnaires were distributed to all 415 nurses who worked at the hospital.
An utilization-focussed approach was adopted incorporating a two-phase research process; Phase 1 being exploratory while Phase 2 aimed to validate inductions derived from the previous stage. Results The programme is effective in meeting its learning outcomes. The findings are categorized into four theme areas: the importance of preceptor characteristics, the demonstration of these characteristics, knowledge demonstrated by the preceptors and the skills demonstrated by the preceptor.
In preparation for these changes, we conducted a scope review of published and grey literature in the English language. We also reviewed the earlier experiences of transfer to graduate status amongst other workforces such as teaching and social work and we investigated reported practice in other industrialised countries.
A qualitative evaluation study was undertaken using the naturalistic method of inquiry. A combination of tools was used in order to collect the data and enable progressive focusing and cross checking of the findings. These included documentary analysis, a questionnaire and focus group and individual interviews. The data was collected from documents analysis, focus group interviews, individual interviews and questionnaires.
A succession planning model was developed from the literature and through a process of consultation with senior staff. The model was then evaluated from a customer satisfaction, programme progress, effective placement and organizational results perspectives. Nurses who were successful in obtaining a new role were surveyed after 6 weeks in the position. Descriptive statistics, including numbers of placements and types of positions filled, were recorded. A checklist for conducting a programme evaluation of succession planning was also used.
Twenty-seven staff from four settings (two acute trusts and two community teams) participated in this qualitative study employing focus groups and interviews.
Data were collected from a sample of 270 non-medical prescribers using an in-depth questionnaire, and telephone interviews with a purposive sample of 11 key stakeholders.
A national census was carried out (April 2007) via an emailed questionnaire to Directors of Nursing. Quantitative data were analysed using descriptive statistics. Qualitative data were analysed using thematic analysis.
Qualitative interviews were carried out with all Directors of Nursing in the 18 Health and Social Services (HSS) Trusts and the Chief Nurses and Directors of Primary Care in the four HSS Boards in Northern Ireland.
We conducted a secondary analysis of survey data from two studies and compared the pattern of relationships among study variables in two groups: 185 nurses 2 years post-graduation and 294 nurses with more than 2 years of experience.
PubMed search utilizing the terms "phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor," PDE5 inhibitor,""sildenafil,""vardenafil," and "tadalafil." Articles were screened based on whether or not they addressed issues of routine dosing of PDE5I. Manuscripts on the newly approved daily dose tadalafil for erectile dysfunction (ED) were deferred for analysis in a separate manuscript in this series.
Peer reviewed publications on routine dosing of PDE5I published in the medical literature since 2007.
Four scientists with expertise and/or interest in the area of ED pathophysiology and diagnosis were asked to contribute their opinions.
To give to The Journal of Sexual Medicine's reader new stimuli to reexamine a still largely utilized tool utilized in sexual medicine's clinical practice.
Baseline and 4-year data from a large prospective cohort study of 2000 Chinese elderly men were analyzed. A total of 1,736 subjects were included in the current analysis after excluding those with history of bladder or prostate cancer, or urological surgery, and those who used alpha blockers or anti-androgen.
LUTS were measured at baseline by the International Prostatic Symptom Score and ED was measured using one question on impotence at the end of 4 years.
Quantitation of Intercontinental Marketing Services (IMS) prescription data to identify testosterone prescriptions written for women and a summary of response to queries to opinion leaders and practicing physicians.
Interviews and an opinion poll of gynecologists and family medicine physicians on current medical treatment of HSDD.
Adult male rats were divided into four groups: sham surgery (CN exposure only) + vehicle; bilateral CN injury (BCNI; bilateral crush, 3 minutes with hemostat clamp) + vehicle; BCNI + FK (5 mg/kg/day, 5 days, sc); and BCNI + RAP (2 mg/kg/day, 5 days, sc). At both 24 hours (Day 1) or 1 week (Day 7) after BCNI, EF was assessed by intracavernosal pressure measurement and FKBPs 12, 38, 52, and 65 expressions were evaluated by Western blot analysis in collected penises and MPGs.
EF and change in protein expressions of FKBPs in the rat penis and MPG after BCNI with and without immunophilin ligand treatment.
During April 2008, data were collected from a population-based cross-sectional survey of 1,047 men aged 18-60 years in the United States. Analyses were conducted using post-stratification data weights.
Measures included sociodemographics, health status and health-related behaviors, sexual behaviors, vibrator use, and sexual function.
Retrospective cohort study of 631 women ever treated with testosterone between January 1989 and December 2007 in a clinical endocrinology practice.
The incidence of invasive breast cancer since first exposure, and the standardized incidence rate ratio (IRR) calculated using Australian age-specific incidence rates for 2005.
The data presented here were obtained from the Family Violence Survey conducted in Tehran in 2007. A total of 230 married Iranian women were selected via a multi-cluster sampling method from four different randomized regions. The subjects' sociodemographic data, psychological distress (Symptom Check List; SCL-90-R), personality, and relationship characteristics (Personal and Relationships Profile), and marital attitude (Marital Attitude Survey) were gathered. In addition, the participants' self-reported histories of lifetime victimization through all types of violence by the husband, including coerced anal and vaginal sex as well as psychological and physical assault (Conflict Tactic Scales-Revised; CTS-2), were collected.
ED severity by the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) and penile duplex study.
The present study included 100 patients who underwent CABG. The patients were evaluated by an abridged form of the IIEF-5 questionnaire, followed by CABG. Six months after surgery the erectile function of all patients was re-evaluated utilizing the IIEF-5.
A nationally representative sample of 3,800 women aged 18-60 years were invited to participate in a cross-sectional Internet-based survey; 2,056 (54.1%) participated.
The prevalence of vibrator use, the relationship between vibrator use and physical and psychological well-being (as assessed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] Healthy Days measure) and health-promoting behaviors, the relationship between vibrator use and women's scores on the Female Sexual Function Index, and an assessment of the frequency and severity of side effects potentially associated with vibrator use.
Thirteen women with PVD completed eight sessions of PFPT. Participants were assessed at pre- and post-treatment via gynecological examinations, vestibular pain threshold testing, structured interviews, and standardized questionnaires. A 3-month follow-up interview assessed any further changes.
Outcome measures included: vestibular pain thresholds, gynecological examination and intercourse pain ratings, sexual function and intercourse frequency, mental health, negative pain cognitions, and success rates.
A representative sample of 2,810 Swedes reported frequency of PVI, noncoital sex, and masturbation during the past 30 days, and degree of satisfaction with their sex life, life in general, partnership, and mental health.
Multivariate analyses (for the sexes separately and combined) considering the different satisfaction parameters as dependent variables, and the different types of sexual activities (and age) as putative predictors.
Subjects consisted of 3,941 adult men (age &gt; or = 20 years) with no history of prostate cancer from the 2001-2004 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Logistic regression analyses were used to examine the relative odds of ED association with categories of BMI, WC, and physical activity.
Established thresholds were used to divide subjects into three WC and BMI categories. Physical activity level was divided into active (&gt; or =150 min/week), moderately active (30-149 min/week), and inactive (&lt;30 min/week) categories. A single survey question was used to assess the presence of ED.
Pharmacokinetic predictions of tadalafil plasma concentrations were generated based upon empirical data following 20-mg, single-dose administration coupled with tadalafil usage patterns from as-needed clinical trials. To support the pharmacokinetic simulations and pharmacodynamic assumptions, clinical trials were conducted to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of once-daily, low-dose tadalafil 2.5 and 5 mg.
Simulated tadalafil plasma concentrations and comparison with safety and efficacy measures from clinical trials.
Nine young (3 months) and 10 old (18 months) rats were used. Under anesthesia cavernous nerve stimulation was performed at stimulation strengths ranging from 0.1 to 10 mA.
The ICP, BP, ICP/BP, and VPE responses to cavernous nerve stimulation were quantified and compared.
A health questionnaire was mailed to a population-based sample from the National Population Register in 1998, 1999, and 2001. Based on their self-reported mental symptoms, a total of 116 men were selected for clinical examination in 2005. Half of them had high and the others low levels of adverse mental symptoms in all three previous follow-ups. A structured clinical interview for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV was performed. Depressive symptoms were assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). The Aging Males' Symptoms scale was also compiled and testosterone levels were determined.
A questionnaire study on 129 consecutive TGCC patients 3 to 5 years post-treatment was performed. Comparators were an age-matched nationally representative group of men (N = 916) included in a study on sexual life in Sweden.
Sexual functions (including erectile dysfunctional distress), time since last intercourse, sexual satisfaction, and experience of sexological treatment seeking were assessed using the same questions used in the epidemiological study on sexual life in Sweden. The findings in TGCC patients were correlated to biochemical signs of hypogonadism and type of oncological treatment: Surveillance, adjuvant chemotherapy, adjuvant radiotherapy, or standard doses of chemotherapy.
A total of 2035 women from the TwinsUK registry completed questionnaires relating to emotional intelligence and sexual behavior. Global emotional intelligence was measured using the Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire-Short Form (TEIQue-SF). Orgasmic frequency was assessed using two self-constructed questions.
Using Spearman's rank correlation and quartile logistic regression, we investigated whether variations in emotional intelligence are associated with female orgasmic frequency during intercourse and masturbation.
Treatment results and complications in two groups were evaluated with history and physical examination, and International Index of Erectile Function-5 Questionnaire was used for erectile function assessment. Methods. The charts of 42 men diagnosed with penile fracture were retrospectively reviewed, and two treatment modalities were compared: conservative (Group I) and surgical (Group II). Results. Between 1991 and 2008, a total of 42 patients with penile fracture were followed in our clinic for a mean of 18 months (range: 6-30 months). Five men who refused surgical treatment were treated conservatively, and the other 37 patients underwent surgical treatment. In Group II, the most common complication was painful erection (in 4 of 37 patients, 10.8 %), whereas in Group I, 80 % (4/5 patients) suffered complications such as wound infection, painful erection, penile nodule and curvature, and erectile dysfunction. Conclusion. Diagnosis of penile fracture can be based on history and physical examination; diagnostic tests such as ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging are generally not required. Fractures must be repaired either immediately or delayed. Because management with emergency surgical repair is the most effective approach, with the lowest complication rate, surgical treatment should be preferred compared to a conservative approach.
The study cohort consisted of 713 men with type 1 DM who completed the Diabetes Control and Complication Trial and then participated in the follow-up Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study. In year 10 of EDIC, 583 (83%) completed a validated instrument assessing ED, OD, and DL and the bother these conditions cause. Statistical tests determined the concordance of function and bother in each domain, and the impact of each domain on overall sexual satisfaction.
Patient-reported outcomes using responses to individual items of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF).
Vaginal and clitoral cavernosal smooth muscle strips from New Zealand white rabbits (N = 12) were exposed to stable H(2)S donor, sodium hydrosulfide hydrate (NaHS.xH(2)O, 100 microM-1.6 mM), in isometric tension studies. The NaHS responses were repeated after incubations with (i) N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (50 microM), 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) (10 microM) or cis-N-[2-phenylcyclopentyl]-azacyclotridec-1-en-2-amine (MDL 12,330A) (10 microM); and (ii) potassium chloride medium (high K(+) 60 mM/low K(+) 10 mM), tetraethylammonium (10 mM) or glibenclamide (100 microM). Relaxant effect of NaHS was also compared with those of nitroglycerine (0.18-78.2 microM) and sildenafil (0.084-25.3 microM). Additionally, samples (N = 16) were collected for estimations of plasma and tissue H(2)S and expression levels of cystathionine gamma-lyase (CSE) and cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) proteins.
In vitro evidences for H(2)S formation and its physiopharmacological effects.
We report on the case of a 19-year-old Caucasian man with thalassemia intermedia complicated by recurrent episodes of priapism following therapeutic splenectomy. After failure of conventional measures to control recurrences, a trial of long-term PDE5is use was initiated.
PDE5is efficacy based on clinical patient history.
The measures are: (i) mortality by presence or absence of ED; (ii) mortality by HF etiology and presence or absence of ED; and (iii) PVD and mortality in HF patients on optimal medical therapy with ED.
This is a single-center, prospective cohort study of 328 male HF patients (ejection fraction &lt; or = 40%) followed while being treated with optimal doses of beta blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. The Sexual Health Inventory for Men survey was used to assess ED (no ED &gt; or = 22 and ED &lt; or = 21). Ankle brachial index (ABI) was used to assess PVD (normal ABI &gt; or = 0.9 and abnormal ABI &lt; 0.9).
Two patients presented with gross hematuria in the recovery room following repair of a cylinder to pump tubing break of their inflatable penile prostheses (IPPs). In each operation, the existing reservoir had been left in situ and refilled once placed in circuit with new cylinders and pump.
Two-month-old C57BL/6J mice were fed a diet containing 4% cholesterol and 1% cholic acid, and age-matched control animals were fed a normal diet, for 3 months. We performed dual priming oligonucleotide (DPO)-based multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (Seegene, Seoul, Korea) to screen the differential gene expression of 21 endothelial cell-to-cell junctions.
At 5 months, erectile function was measured by electrical stimulation of the cavernous nerve, and the penis was harvested and stained with antibody to claudin-5, vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin, and platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule (PECAM)-1 (N = 8 per group). Cavernous specimens from a separate group of animals were used for claudin-5, VE-cadherin, and PECAM-1 reverse transcriptase-PCR and Western blot analysis.
Histological evaluation of the penile tissue in comparison with control rats at 2, 4, and 9 weeks after irradiation.
The prostate of twelve rats was treated with external beam radiation in 5 daily fractions of 7.4 gray. Three control rats were treated with sham irradiation. Prostatic and penile tissue was evaluated for general histology (hematoxylin-eosin). The penile tissue was further evaluated after combined staining for collagen (resorcin fuchsin) and alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA) (Biogenex).
Review of published literature on standard EEG waveform analyses and most recent electrical neuroimaging techniques (microstate approach and two methods of brain source localization).
Retrospective overview of pertinent literature.
Members of the ISSM and its regional affiliates were invited to participate in a web-based survey.
Demographic factors, current practice status, and opinions regarding post-RP erectile dysfunction and penile rehabilitation. The statistical methods used included chi-square, Student's t-tests, and logistic regression analysis.
Eighty-six patients referred to our smell and taste clinic with olfactory dysfunction were investigated. Olfactory function was assessed by means of the "Sniffin' Sticks" test battery consisting of tests for odor threshold (T), odor discrimination (D), and odor identification (I). Their results were summed up to a composite score, the so-called "TDI score." All participants completed a questionnaire including the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and 11 questions for evaluation of the sexual appetite in regard to the time before the onset of olfactory dysfunction and since the olfactory dysfunction. The points received for the latter questions were summed up to the so called Sexual Appetite Index (SAI).
A questionnaire containing Sexual Health Inventory for Men and questions inquiring treatment-seeking patterns was mailed or given to 4,040 subjects who had visited our endocrinology outpatient department for diabetes during January 2004 to May 2006.
The prevalence of being bothered and having interest in treatment, and the percentage having sought treatment in regard to ED and their correlates with age and ED severity.
The mass was excised through a circumferential subcoronal incision while maintaining skin vascularity and integrity of the corpora. The excised tissue was microscopically examined.
Cosmetic and functional results of surgical correction.
A prospective clinical study was performed. Dogs were included if they had evidence of cranial cruciate ligament insufficiency or persistent or recurrent lameness following surgery for cranial cruciate ligament insufficiency. Dogs were sedated for a computed tomography scan of the affected stifle, orientated in the dorsal plane. A survey computed tomography scan was followed by a computed tomography arthrogram. A stifle arthrotomy was performed, and the surgical findings were recorded. The computed tomography scans were reviewed by three blinded reviewers, and the results were compared to the surgical findings.
A retrospective study was performed reviewing computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging archives of eight institutions for dogs with segmental caudal vena cava aplasia. Inclusion criteria included a computed tomographic or magnetic resonance imaging study and supportive diagnostic and follow-up information. Abdominal vessels were reviewed for size, shape, location and course (including tributaries and branches) and classified as normal, abnormal or shunt vessels.
Forty small breed dogs undergoing elective surgical procedures were randomly assigned to two groups. One group was intraoperatively laid on warmed gel pads, and the other group was additionally wrapped in a Sirius rescue sheet. Oesophageal body temperature was determined every 10 minutes and compared between groups. Temperature of gel pads was measured preoperatively and postoperatively to compare heat loss of the gel pads between groups.
Twenty-one dogs with confirmed intranasal neoplasia underwent both computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. The images were reviewed retrospectively for the bony and soft tissue features of intranasal neoplasia.
All patients who underwent lobectomy for clinical stage 1A lung cancer by computed tomographic and positron emission tomographic scan were identified from a prospective database. Patient characteristics were compared by the Student t test, Pearson chi(2), and Fisher exact test. A propensity score-matched analysis was performed. Survival was assessed by Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards analysis. Complications were assessed by a multivariate logistic regression model evaluating age, sex, comorbidities, pulmonary function, tumor size, nodal status, surgeon, and histologic characteristics.
We performed a retrospective review from December 1972 through December 2002.
We performed a single-institution retrospective cohort study. Data included patient demographics, stage, treatment, pathologic findings, and postoperative outcomes.
Twelve adult pigs underwent long-segment (6 cm, 60% of total length) tracheal resection. Autologous costal cartilage strips measuring 6 cm x 2 mm were harvested from the chest wall and inserted at regular 0.5-cm intervals between dermal layers of a cervical skin flap. The neotrachea was then scaffolded by rotating the composite cartilage skin flap around a silicone stent measuring 6 cm in length and 1.4 cm in diameter. The neotrachea replaced the long segment of tracheal resection, and the donor flap site was closed with a double-Z plasty. Animals were killed at 1 week (group I, n = 4), 2 weeks (group II, n = 4), and 5 weeks (group III, n = 4). In group III the stent was removed 1 week before death. Viability of the neotrachea was monitored by means of daily flexible bronchoscopy and histologic examination at autopsy. Long-term morbidity and mortality were determined by monitoring weight gain, respiratory distress, and survival.
We reviewed the case histories of 25 consecutive patients operated on between 1987 and 2004 for intrathoracic recurrence (7 mediastinal, 18 nonmediastinal) after radical thymomectomy. Complete resection was performed in 14 patients. In the other 11 patients incomplete resection was followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Expression of cell-cycle proteins (p53, p21, and p27) was assessed by immunohistochemistry in specimens retrieved from both initial and recurrent thymomas. Univariate and multivariate analysis for prognostic factors present at the time of the recurrence was performed.
From January 2004 to September 2007, the branched open stent-grafting technique was performed in 69 cases (55 men, average age 66.2 years, 36 degenerative aneurysms and 33 aortic dissections, 13 [18.8%] in emergency, 7 [10.1%] redo cases). Under deep hypothermic circulatory arrest, the branched endoprosthesis was delivered through the opened proximal aortic arch, and total arch repair was completed. To avoid cerebral embolism, retrograde cerebral perfusion was performed at the end of deep hypothermic circulatory arrest.
An observational study aimed at analyzing transit-time flow measurements during 1:1 intra-aortic balloon pump use and during its cessation in 138 consecutive patients using intra-aortic balloon pump before coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 442 graft segments) was reported.
The study consisted of 79 consecutive patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy (age 65 +/- 9 years; 81% men; ejection fraction 30% +/- 6%) and logistic European system for cardiac operative risk evaluation &gt; 10% having coronary artery bypass surgery. Myocardial viability was assessed by delayed contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. Left ventricular dyssynchrony was calculated using tissue Doppler from measurements of regional electromechanical coupling times in left ventricular basal segments before coronary artery bypass surgery.
Ninety patients underwent double valve surgery for active endocarditis over a 26-year period (mean age, 53 +/- 16 years; 71% male patients). Prosthetic endocarditis was seen in 32 patients. Staphylococcus species was isolated in 29%. Forty-six (51%) patients had abscesses. Surgical intervention consisted of valve repair or replacement with limited infection or radical resection, patch reconstruction, and valve replacement for abscesses. Mean follow-up was 5.9 +/- 4.7 years (range, 0-18 years) and was complete.
A total of 1735 patients received coronary artery bypass grafting using the radial artery between January 2001 and July 2007, of whom 893 received serial computed tomographic coronary angiographies; these patients formed the basis of the current study. The patients were divided into 2 groups: group I (direct radial artery to aortic anastomosis, n = 451 patients) and group II (radial artery composite grafting with the left internal thoracic artery, n = 442 patients). The number of distal radial artery anastomoses performed in group I was 657 and 749 in group II. Sequential bypassing was performed in 399 patients.
We retrospectively analyzed outcomes of 12 patients (mean age 28 +/- 5 years) referred for percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation to treat right ventricle-pulmonary artery conduit failure 11.1 +/- 3.3 years after Ross procedure.
Thirty-four Fontan patients (median age 10.4 years, range 6.8-20.7 years, 22 boys, median follow-up 7.8 years, 5.0-17.8 years) underwent electrocardiography, Holter monitoring, bicycle exercise testing, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, and N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) analysis.
We studied 105 Fontan patients (aged 2-24 years) with through-plane phase contrast velocity mapping to determine flow rates in the inferior and superior venae cavae and left and right pulmonary arteries. Superior caval anastomosis type included 40 bidirectional Glenn shunts (of which 15 were bilateral) and 53 hemi-Fontan anastomoses; Fontan type included 69 intra-atrial baffles, 28 extracardiac conduits, and 4 atriopulmonary connections.
One hundred seven patients were analyzed. They had a congenital diagnosis of pulmonary stenosis or tetralogy of Fallot, had their first pulmonary valve replacement between 2002 and 2008, and had a known interval between pulmonary valve disruption and pulmonary valve replacement. The median age at the time of surgical intervention was 2 years for pulmonary valve disruption (range, 0-56 years) and 26 years for pulmonary valve replacement (range, 1-72 years). The median interval was 23 years (range, 0-51 years). Potential related factors were sex, race, initial diagnosis and procedure, age at pulmonary valve disruption, prior shunt operation, presence of branch pulmonary artery stenosis, and degree of pulmonary regurgitation.
The procedure was performed through bilateral minithoracotomies with video assistance. It included bilateral pulmonary vein isolation with bipolar radiofrequency with documentation of conduction block, location of ganglionic plexi by high-frequency stimulation, and appropriate ablation and left atrial appendage exclusion/excision. Clinical follow-up at 6 months included monitoring with electrocardiogram, Holter, event monitor, or pacemaker interrogation.
In the Talent Thoracic Retrospective Registry, 180 patients were treated for acute or chronic aortic dissection (mean age: 59.6 +/- 13.0 years). Thirty-seven (20.6%) patients had acute aortic complications with signs of rupture, distal malperfusion, or persistent pain; the remainder were in stable condition. Aortic diameter was 53.5 +/- 14.3 mm, the distance from the left subclavian artery to the proximal entry tear was 44.1 +/- 41.9 mm, and dissection extended beyond the celiac axis in 88.3% of cases. Length of covered aorta measured 138.9 +/- 45.7 mm, with one stent graft used in 125 (69.4%) patients.
Between June 22, 2006, and March 22, 2007, 220 patients requiring coronary artery bypass grafting with at least 2 vein grafts were enrolled. Within each patient, 1 graft was randomly assigned to receive a PAS-Port device, and the other was assigned to receive a hand-sewn anastomosis to the ascending aorta. The primary end point was angiographic patency (&lt;50% stenosis) 9 months after surgical intervention. Secondary end points included average time to complete each anastomosis and 9-month freedom from major adverse cardiac events.
The optical properties of methylene blue were measured after dissolution in 100% serum. Biodistribution and clearance were quantified in organs and tissue after intravenous bolus injection of 2 mg/kg methylene blue in 3 rats. Coronary arteriography and cardiac perfusion were imaged in real time after intravenous bolus injection of 1 mg/kg methylene blue in 5 pigs with coronary obstructions. Coronary angiography and acute thrombi were assessed by using 800-nm fluorophores, indocyanine green, and IR-786-labeled platelets, respectively.
We induced either ischemia or edema alone in isolated cardiomyocytes and whole Langendorff-perfused hearts. Function was measured as shortening dynamics and developed pressure, respectively.
A left ventricular pressure-volume catheter was placed in 21 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (ejection fraction 29% +/- 5%). Pressure-volume loops were obtained after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass with atrial synchronous biventricular, left ventricular, and right ventricular outflow tract pacing and atrial-only stimulation at 90 beats/min.
Twenty patients undergoing elective true left open surgery were prospectively and alternately enrolled in the study to the conventional de-airing technique (pleural cavities unopened, dead space ventilation during cardiopulmonary bypass [control group]) and the new de-airing technique (pleural cavities open, ventilator disconnected during cardiopulmonary bypass, staged perfusion, and ventilation of lungs during de-airing [study group]). Transesophageal echocardiography and transcranial Doppler continually monitored the air emboli during the de-airing period and for 10 minutes after termination of the cardiopulmonary bypass.
A single-step purification method using adhesion to cell culture plastic was adopted to isolate mesenchymal stem cells from wild-type, estrogen receptor-alpha knockout, estrogen receptor-beta knockout, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 knockout mice. Mesenchymal stem cells were treated with or without 17beta-estradiol, estrogen receptor-alpha agonist (propyl pyrazoletriol), and estrogen receptor-beta agonist (diarylpropionitrile).
Septal infarction was induced in 6 sheep using ethanol delivery into the main septal perforating artery. Six shams avoided ethanol. Load-independent and in-series right ventricular response to incremental (0%-100%) left ventricular unloading was measured 4 weeks later. Dimensions of whole heart, wall thickness, and chamber volumes were obtained using sonomicrometers. Selective perfusion with triphenyltetrazolium quantified septal damage.
From June 2005 to July 2006, a total of 451 patients were given diagnoses of and treated for pulmonary tuberculosis in a university-affiliated hospital. Among them, 121 patients who received bronchoscopy because of sputum-negative conditions were recruited. Of these, 73 patients received bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasonography, and 48 patients received conventional bronchoscopy.
Serum and total RNA were obtained from the blood samples collected from patients with diabetes and matched patients without diabetes (n = 7 patients each) who had coronary artery bypass graft before and 6 hours and 4 days after cardiopulmonary bypass/cardioplegic arrest. The cytokine panel, consisting of growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and epidermal growth factor, was quantified in patients with diabetes and patients without diabetes before and 6 hours and 4 days post-cardiopulmonary bypass/cardioplegic arrest using multiplex cytokine quantification system. cDNA microarray analysis was performed and fold-change was calculated.
Included were 115 specimens of lung tissue from patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax who underwent video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery from January 2001 to December 2002. We reviewed the clinical features of 56 smokers and 59 nonsmokers with an average follow-up of 67 months. The pathologic findings of resected lung specimens were analyzed retrospectively.
Venous blood from volunteers older than 65 years undergoing routine echocardiographic analysis or aortic valve surgery for aortic stenosis was collected. Plasma osteopontin levels were measured by means of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The presence of aortic stenosis was defined as an aortic valve area of less than 2.0 cm(2). Aortic valve calcification was assessed by using a validated echocardiographic grading system (1, none; 2, mild; 3, moderate; 4, severe). Comparisons were performed with nonpaired t tests.
The study cohort consisted of 1140 consecutive patients undergoing nonemergency coronary artery bypass grafting. Clinical details were obtained prospectively, and serum uric acid was measured a median of 1 day before surgery. The primary end point was all-cause mortality.
Sixty-seven cyanotic patients (median age 15 months, interquartile range 6-49 months) undergoing corrective cardiac surgery were randomized to receive either controlled normoxic (50-0 mm Hg; n = 35) or hyperoxic (150-180 mm Hg; n = 32) cardiopulmonary bypass. Troponin I and 8-isoprostane, C3a, interleukins 6, 8, and 10, cortisol, protein S100, and alpha-glutamate transferase were measured preoperatively and 10 and 30 minutes after starting bypass, on removal of the aortic crossclamp, and 12 and 24 hours thereafter.
The study group consisted of 68 cardiac allograft recipients (63 men and 5 women, 43 +/- 12 years old). We performed a re-evaluation of 1071 endomyocardial biopsy specimens to search for microvascular diseases and lipofuscin in cardiocytes. Endomyocardial biopsy specimens with an International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation rejection grade of 2 or more and those without arterioles were excluded. Abnormalities found in the remaining 517 specimens were correlated with the grade of rejection. Biopsy specimens obtained 2 weeks, 12 months, and 36 months after transplantation were compared with coronary angiography results, clinical events of cardiac allograft vasculopathies, and survivals. Kaplan-Meier curves were constructed to compare the time to the development of cardiac allograft vasculopathy or death.
Thirty-three recipients of living-donor lobar lung transplantation were divided into two groups: those with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH group; n = 12) and those without (non-PAH group; n = 21). Their systolic pulmonary artery pressure was 93.1 +/- 6.7 mm Hg versus 31.4 +/- 2.9 mm Hg, respectively. Right and left ventricular ejection fractions, systolic pulmonary artery pressure, and cardiac index were serially measured by radionuclide ventriculography and right heart catheterization, respectively.
Records of patients who underwent salvage with a CentriMag as bridge to decision and later to transplant were reviewed. Between June 2003 and June 2008, 4 patients in cardiogenic shock from acute decompensated end-stage heart failure and multiorgan dysfunction underwent salvage with biventricular CentriMag as bridge to decision. Three were male. Mean age was 39.3 years (range 24-52 years). Three had dilated cardiomyopathy; 1 had ischemic cardiomyopathy. All had preoperative mechanical ventilation, large doses of multiple inotropes, and intra-aortic balloon support. All also had acute liver and renal failure and metabolic acidosis.
Western blot and flow cytometry were used to determine levels of the adhesion receptor glycoprotein (GP)Ibalpha on platelets or its shed fragment glycocalicin in plasma and serum from wild-type mice, Tph1(-/-) mice lacking peripheral 5-HT, and mice lacking functional tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme (TACE, ADAM17). Flow chamber experiments and intravital microscopy were used to examine the adhesive properties of platelets after stimulation of 5-HT2AR.
We studied the effects of FFP, rFVIIa and Beriplex P/N on the INR and TG, using the calibrated automated thrombography assay in ex vivo warfarinized plasma. Plasmas with different INRs were spiked with different concentrations of Beriplex P/N.
Antibodies against PF4-heparin complex were assayed by particle gel immunoassay (PaGIA), or enzyme immunoassay (EIA) with or without an excess of heparin. EIA for PF4 alone was also performed. Functional assays for HIT, that is, heparin-induced platelet activation (HIPA) and heparin-induced platelet aggregation, were also performed.
Levels, activity, conformation and immunohistological features of antithrombin were studied in patients, cell and mice models. Because of the importance of the steroid receptor-heat stress response (HSR) axis, and the role of unfolded protein response (UPR) in conformational diseases, we also evaluated Hsp27, Hsp70, Hsp90, HSF-1 and ER chaperons (Grp78 and Grp94).
MPs were prepared from plasma by centrifugation. The procoagulant activity (PCA) of MPs was measured using a two-stage chromogenic assay. We also measured levels of thrombin-antithrombin and the number of MPs.
LAC and antibody levels were measured in 208 stroke patients and 203 age- and gender-matched control subjects.
Dynamic whole blood clot formation assessed by thromboelastometry, platelet count, thrombin generation, and the activities of von Willebrand factor, coagulation factor II, FVII, FVIII, FIX, FX and FXIII were measured in 20 bleeding patients enrolled in a prospective clinical study investigating in vivo substitution of blood loss with HES up to a target level of 30%. Thromboelastometry parameters were further evaluated after ex vivo spiking experiments with fibrinogen, prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), FXIII, activated recombinant FVIIa (rFVIIa), fresh frozen plasma, and platelets.
Using in vitro selection, aptamer stabilization, and conjugation to a 20-kDa poly(ethylene glycol), we generated a nuclease-resistant aptamer, ARC1779, that binds to the VWF A1-domain with high affinity (K(D) approximately 2 nM). The aptamer was assessed for inhibition of VWF-induced platelet aggregation. In vitro inhibition of platelet adhesion was assessed on collagen-coated slides and injured pig aortic segments. In vivo activity was assessed in a cynomolgus monkey carotid electrical injury thrombosis model.
Degradation of rVWF was studied in vitro under moderate denaturing conditions and was monitored by multimer analysis, residual collagen binding, and immunoblot analysis. In vivo cleavage was determined by administration of rVWF to cynomolgus monkeys, rabbits and VWF-deficient mice and subsequent analysis of plasma samples by immunoblot. Plasma ADAMTS13 levels were determined with a synthetic human VWF peptide (FRETS-VWF73).
Agonist-induced GPVI and CLEC-2 signaling were assessed using aggregometry, immunoprecipitation and western blotting to determine the effects of R406 on platelet activation.
Human and murine platelets were allowed to adhere to immobilized type I monomeric collagen through alpha2beta1. Tyrosine phosphorylation of PLCgamma2, PLC activation, accumulation of GTP-bound Rap1b and fibrinogen binding were measured and compared.
Adults with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes on maximally tolerated doses of metformin, sulphonylurea, or both, were stratified by previous oral antidiabetic therapy and randomly assigned to receive additional liraglutide 1.8 mg once a day (n=233) or exenatide 10 microg twice a day (n=231) in a 26-week open-label, parallel-group, multinational (15 countries) study. The primary outcome was change in glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)). Efficacy analyses were by intention to treat. The trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00518882.
In this double-blind, dose-escalation, phase II study, undertaken at 297 sites in 27 countries, 3491 patients stabilised after an acute coronary syndrome were stratified on the basis of investigator decision to use aspirin only (stratum 1, n=761) or aspirin plus a thienopyridine (stratum 2, n=2730). Participants were randomised within each strata and dose tier with a block randomisation method at 1:1:1 to receive either placebo or rivaroxaban (at doses 5-20 mg) given once daily or the same total daily dose given twice daily. The primary safety endpoint was clinically significant bleeding (TIMI major, TIMI minor, or requiring medical attention); the primary efficacy endpoint was death, myocardial infarction, stroke, or severe recurrent ischaemia requiring revascularisation during 6 months. Safety analyses included all participants who received at least one dose of study drug; efficacy analyses were by intention to treat. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00402597.
35 550 women were registered with gestational trophoblastic disease in the UK (1976-2006), of whom 62 were diagnosed with placental-site trophoblastic tumours and included, retrospectively, in the study. Patients were treated by surgery, chemotherapy, or both. We estimated the probabilities of overall survival and survival without recurrence of disease 5 and 10 years after the date of first treatment, and calculated the association of these endpoints with prognostic factors, including time since antecedent pregnancy, serum concentration of beta-human chorionic gonadotropin, and stage of disease, with both univariate and multivariate analyses.
A multicentre, randomised, open-label, active control, phase III, non-inferiority trial was done at four HAT treatment centres in the Republic of the Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Patients aged 15 years or older with confirmed second-stage T b gambiense infection were randomly assigned by computer-generated randomisation sequence to receive intravenous eflornithine (400 mg/kg per day, every 6 h; n=144) for 14 days or intravenous eflornithine (400 mg/kg per day, every 12 h) for 7 days with oral nifurtimox (15 mg/kg per day, every 8 h) for 10 days (NECT; n=143). The primary endpoint was cure (defined as absence of trypanosomes in body fluids and a leucocyte count &lt;/=20 cells per muL) 18 months after treatment. Efficacy analyses were done in the intention-to-treat (ITT), modified ITT, and per-protocol (PP) populations. The non-inferiority margin for the difference in cure rates was defined as 10%. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00146627.
Retrospective analysis of clinical, radiological and evolution variables in a series of LE associated with VGKC-Ab without onconeuronal antibodies.
A retrospective review of GAVE patients treated with APC and followed up for a minimum of 24 months was done.
One hundred and forty five patients of the University Hospital Foundation Alcorcón (122 women) candidates for bariatric surgery (108 finally operated) were included in the study. A clinical interview was carried and several scales of psychopathology were applied before and after surgery: Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Maudsley Obsessive-compulsive Interview (MOCI), Barrat Impulsiveness Scale (BIS), Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI), Eating Attitudes Test (EAT), Bulimic Investigation Test Edinburg (BITE), and Body Shape Questionnaire (BSQ). A comparison of means between the initial and final scores of the psychometric tests and a logistic regression analysis to identify the predictive variables of positive evolution after surgery (defined as percentage of lost overweight&gt; 50% and final IMC &lt;35) were performed.
All women of reproductive age residing in Asturias, Catalonia, Valencia and Madrid were included. The rates of legally induced abortion in Spanish and immigrant women were calculated in 2005. It was estimated the rate in all women in 1991 assuming that that rate refers to Spanish women only.
cTp-I was measured in consecutive patients objectively diagnosed of PE by means of pulmonary angiography made with helicoidal CT. Patients were classified radiologically as central or peripheral PE and hemodynamically as massive, submassive or non-massive according to the pulmonary vessel occluded and systolic blood pressure and ProBNP levels respectively. We checked also the delay in diagnosis (DD) and 30-days all-causes mortality rate.
We performed a retrospective chart review of all patients who underwent multisegmental spinal reconstruction and pelvic reconstruction using posterior instrumentation and free fibula vascularized bone transfer.
Cadaveric donor limbal corneal epithelial cells were cultured on denuded amniotic membranes using an explant technique that was free of serum and feeder cells in the Epilife medium containing a growth supplement of defined composition. These cells were assessed by phase contrast microscope. The expressions of the proposed corneal epithelial stem cell markers (p63, ATP-binding cassette member 2 (ABCG2), and cytokeratin 15 and 19) and differentiation markers (cytokeratin 3, 12, connexin 43, and p75) were analyzed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemical staining.
Seventy-five POAG patients (49 women, 26 men) and 119 healthy subjects (67 women, 52 men) were genotyped with polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Allele and genotype frequencies between healthy subjects and glaucoma patients were compared by the chi(2) test, and intraocular pressure (IOP), cup/disc ratio (C/D) and visual field indices (MD and PSD) were compared among different APOE, p53, and p21 genotypes in POAG group. A p value &lt;0.05 was considered as statistically significant.
Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to detect mRNA expression of mAChRs in the human and mouse sclera. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry were used to detect proteins of mAChRs in the cultured SFs. An immunohistochemical study was used to further detect the presence of mAChR proteins in frozen scleral sections. BrdU (5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine ) cell proliferation assay was performed to measure DNA synthesis. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to measure in vitro kinase activity for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R), fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2. Expressions of epidermal growth factor-receptor (EGF-R); protein kinase C (PKC); Proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk-2), v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (B-Raf), Rat Sarcoma (Ras), c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK1/2), and ERK1/2 were detected by immunoblot.
The neck regions of 12 injected cadavers were investigated bilaterally.
Twenty-one pectoralis major pedicles have been dissected from 12 fresh cadavers. For each dissection have been determined: the medial or lateral situation of the pedicle compared to the intersection of the medioclavicular line and the acromioxyphoid line and the distance between these two points, the angle between the real axis of the pedicle and the acromioxyphoid line.
Physical examination, complete blood count, peripheral blood smear, leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score, bone marrow biopsy, CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, MRI of the abdomen and pelvis, measurement of plasma and urine metanephrines, 24 h urine testing for cortisol and 17-ketosteroids, measurement of serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) level, histopathologic examination and immunohistochemical staining of resected tumor.
G-CSF-secreting adrenal carcinoma with rhabdoid-like differentiation.
Evaluation of diagnostic test or technology.
A total of 130 eyes from 130 normal subjects and subjects with glaucoma were analyzed. The subjects were divided into groups by visual field criteria: normal (n = 29), glaucoma suspect (n = 12), mild glaucoma (n = 41), moderate glaucoma (n = 18), and severe glaucoma (n = 30).
Peripapillary RNFL thickness was measured with Stratus Fast RNFL and Cirrus 200 x 200 Optic Disc Scan on the same day in 1 eye of each subject to determine agreement. Two operators used the same instruments for all scans.
Student paired t testing, Pearson's correlation coefficient, and Bland-Altman analysis of RNFL thickness measurements.
Cross-sectional study.
Sixty healthy participants, 48 glaucoma suspects, and 55 subjects with glaucoma.
Participants were imaged by a single trained operator using the Stratus OCT (fast RNFL scan mode) and Cirrus HD-OCT (optic disc cube mode) at the same visit.
The RNFL thickness as measured by the Stratus OCT (fast RNFL scan mode) and Cirrus HD-OCT (optic disc cube mode) was compared (paired t test). The relationship between RNFL thickness measurements of the 2 OCTs were evaluated using a Pearson correlation analysis. The presence of abnormal classification, as determined by using an internal normative data base in each machine was compared (chi-square test). The sensitivity and specificity of normative classification of 2 OCT measurements were calculated.
Observational cross-sectional study.
A total of 156 patients (226 eyes).
The IOLMaster measurements (IOLM-1) were performed before phacoemulsification and reexamined 3 months postoperatively (IOLM-2). One of the foldable acrylic IOLs (AcrySof SA60AT, SN60WF, or SN60D3, Alcon Laboratories Inc., Dallas, TX) was implanted.
The expected refraction and estimation error calculated from IOLM-1 using the SRK II, SRK/T, and Haigis formulae were compared with the residual refraction 3 months postoperatively. The power of the implanted IOL and IOLM-2 measurement data were used to re-estimate the postoperative expected refraction in pseudophakic eyes. The difference in expected refraction and estimation error between phakic and pseudophakic eyes was studied. Differences in the anterior chamber depth and axial length measured by IOLM-1 and IOLM-2 were analyzed and correlated with the estimation error.
Clinical case-control study.
The study included 31 eyes of 31 patients with Marfan's syndrome and 31 eyes of 31 unaffected controls. Subgroups of eyes of patients with Marfan's syndrome with and without a subluxated lens also were compared.
The changes in the anterior segment during accommodation and cycloplegia were studied with OCT.
Accommodative power, anterior chamber depth (ACD), lens thickness, and pupil diameter.
Retrospective, nonrandomized, consecutive case series.
From 2000 to 2005, 33 eyes of 33 patients with unilaterally recurrent macroform corneal erosions showing poor response to conservative management who were treated with Nd:YAG laser were studied.
Anterior corneal stromal puncture with Nd:YAG laser was performed in the loosened epithelium or epithelial defect area. The causes and frequency of corneal erosions and the spot numbers and total energy of the Nd:YAG laser were recorded. Slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination, refraction, corneal topography, and times of laser were reviewed. A questionnaire regarding the preoperative and postoperative difference in the intensity of pain and frequency of corneal erosion was provided.
Rate of recurrence and pain assessment by numerical rating scale.
Experimental anatomic study.
Seven Caucasian cadavers (13 lower eyelids: 7 right and 6 left).
Sagittal full-thickness sections of the cadaveric lower eyelids were prepared and stained with Masson's trichrome. The specimens were examined microscopically to discern the configuration of the lower eyelid retractors. Micrographs were obtained with a digital camera system attached to the microscope.
Histologic findings of the lower eyelid retractors in Caucasians.
Prospective, interventional case series.
We followed 246 consecutive patients who underwent pars plana vitrectomy to remove ERM and for &gt; or =12 months.
Of the 246 eyes, 104 underwent single ERM peeling using indocyanine green staining, and 142 underwent ERM peeling by 1 of the 3 following methods: without staining in 46 eyes, triamcinolone acetonide staining in 42, and BBG staining in 54. Peeling of residual internal limiting membrane (ILM) was then conducted using BBG. In the latter group, the ILM that remained after the initial peeling procedure was evaluated macroscopically with BBG staining and also histopathologically. In 6 eyes requiring reoperation owing to ERM recurrence, the peeled ERM was examined histopathologically.
Postoperative visual acuity and recurrence of ERM.
Cross-sectional study.
A total of 252 Native American (Tohono O'odham) children aged 5 to 12 years. On the basis of cycloplegic refraction conducted on the day of testing, all were emmetropic (myopia &lt; or =0.25 diopter [D] spherical equivalent, hyperopia &lt; or =1.00 D spherical equivalent, and astigmatism &lt; or =0.50 D in both eyes).
Monocular visual acuity was tested at 4 m, using 1 ETDRS chart for the right eye (RE) and another for the left eye (LE).
Visual acuity was scored as the total number of letters correctly identified, by naming or matching to letters on a lap card, and as the smallest letter size for which the child identified 3 of 5 letters correctly.
A multicenter, prospective, uncontrolled, dose-escalation, phase I/II clinical trial.
Sixty patients enrolled into 6 successive cohorts.
A single intravitreal injection of microplasmin at 1 of 4 doses (25, 50, 75, or 125 microg in 100 microl) administered either 1 to 2 hours, 24 hours, or 7 days before planned pars plana vitrectomy.
For safety, a complete ophthalmologic examination, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, Humphrey visual fields, and electrophysiology; for efficacy, posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) induction as assessed by B-scan ultrasound and ease of PVD induction at the time of vitrectomy.
Observational consecutive case series.
Seven consecutive patients who underwent amniotic membrane transplantation (AMT) for bullous keratopathy and subsequently had a penetrating keratoplasty (PK).
Corneal buttons obtained at PK were examined by light and electron microscopy and by immunohistology with antibodies against CD34 (keratocytes), alpha smooth muscle actin and vimentin (myofibroblasts and fibroblasts respectively). Time from AMT to PK ranged from 2 to 32 months.
Immunophenotypic characteristics of cells populating transplanted amniotic stroma.
Case series.
Seven patients and 10 eyes that received intravitreal injection of the decanted 20 mg of TA.
Fifty microliters of aqueous were sampled from each intravitreally TA-injected eye at postinjection monthly interval and the samples were subjected to liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometric detection for TA.
The TA concentration in the aqueous.
Systematic review and meta-analysis.
Fifteen randomized clinical trials reported 25 arms for peak IOP reduction, 16 arms for trough IOP reduction, and 13 arms for diurnal curve IOP reduction.
Pertinent publications were identified through systematic searches of PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register. The patients had to be diagnosed as having NTG. Methodological quality was assessed by the Delphi list on a scale from 0 to 18. The pooled 1-month IOP-lowering effects were calculated using the 2-step DerSimonian and Laird estimate method of the random effects model.
Absolute and relative reductions in IOP from baseline for peak and trough moments.
Prospective, cross-sectional study.
Ninety-seven normal subjects and 83 glaucoma patients.
One eye from each subject was imaged with Cirrus HD-OCT and Stratus OCT. Sixteen and 31 normal eyes were selected randomly to evaluate intravisit repeatability and intervisit reproducibility, respectively. The agreement of RNFL measurements was evaluated with Bland-Altman plots. The diagnostic sensitivity and specificity was examined with the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). The association between average RNFL thickness and visual field sensitivity was evaluated with a second-order regression model.
Retinal nerve fiber layer measurement variability, AUC, and coefficient of determination (R(2)).
One-year interim analysis of a phase 3, nonrandomized, open-label, prospective, multicenter European clinical study.
A total of 190 subjects (190 eyes) with moderate-to-high myopia. The preoperative mean manifest refraction spherical equivalent (MRSE) was -10.38 diopters (D) +/-2.43 standard deviation (SD).
Unilateral implantation of the AcrySof phakic angle-supported IOL.
Best spectacle-corrected visual acuity (BSCVA), uncorrected distance visual acuity (UCVA), predictability and stability of MRSE, adverse events, and endothelial cell density.
Retrospective, observational case series.
Two hundred thirty-nine patients who underwent frontalis suspension using fascia lata autografts from 1998 through 2006 with a minimum of 6 months of follow-up.
Functional success was assessed by review of photographs and medical charts. Cosmetic success was scored by objective analysis of photographs.
Functional success was defined as improvement of eyelid position above the pupillary margin without serious complications. Cosmetic outcomes were assessed in terms of lid contour, symmetry of height bilaterally, and lid crease and were categorized as excellent, good, or poor at 1 month and at 6 months after surgery.
Evaluation of diagnostic test.
Fifty-four adult patients at the Jones Eye Institute at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences.
One eye of each patient was randomized for study. The pupil size, visual acuity (VA) using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) acuity chart, and glare testing with the Brightness Acuity Tester (BAT) at the medium setting were performed. The patients' eyes were then dilated with all measurements repeated. Each patient was then graded for cataracts using the Lens Opacification Classification System III by an independent observer.
VA and BAT results.
Retrospective, nonrandomized case series.
Three patients (6 eyes) with AP-ROP.
Three patients (6 eyes) diagnosed with AP-ROP during ROP screening between July 2007 and July 2008 were included in this study. Fundus photographs and FA were obtained before and after laser and surgical treatment using a wide-field digital pediatric imaging system.
Fluorescein angiography and fundus photographs.
Prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial.
One-hundred sixty-three patients with newly diagnosed uveal melanoma undergoing iodine 125 plaque radiotherapy were entered into the study. Fifty-five patients were randomized to the control group and 108 to the triamcinolone group. Eighteen-month data were available for 143 (88%) of the 163 patients.
Periocular injection of triamcinolone acetonide (40 mg in 1 ml) at the time of plaque radiotherapy and 4 months and 8 months later. Optical coherence tomography was performed at each patient evaluation.
Optical coherence tomography-evident macular edema, moderate vision loss, and poor final visual acuity.
Prospective cohort study.
A total of 286 eyes from 286 NTG patients: 64 with SCI (SCI+) and 222 without SCI (SCI-).
Patients were assigned to the SCI+ or SCI- group depending on the presence of SCI as detected by cranial computed tomography scan at baseline. Patients were followed-up at 4-month intervals for 36 months for visual field progression as per Anderson's criteria.
The primary outcome was the association between SCI and field progression. Secondary outcomes include the prevalence of SCI in NTG patients and other risk factors associated with progression.
Population-based study.
The Beijing Eye Study 2006 included 3251 subjects (73.3%) (aged 45+ years) of 4439 subjects who participated in the 2001 survey and returned for reexamination.
The prevalence of surgical pseudophakia/aphakia was assessed, and postoperative visual acuity and reasons for decreased postoperative vision were examined. Visual impairment was defined by a presenting visual acuity (PVA) &lt;6/18 or a best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) &lt;6/18.
Prevalence of cataract surgery, lens status, and causes of visual impairment.
Prospective, randomized, investigator-masked trial.
Twenty-six subjects with ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma.
Subjects attended 5 study visits: 2 on no IOP-lowering therapy, 1 on monocular therapy with latanoprost, and 2 on bilateral therapy. The monocular trial eye was randomly selected, and study personnel making IOP measurements were masked to randomization. The following parameters were calculated: the unadjusted IOP change (IOP in the randomized eye at the first on-treatment visit minus IOP in the same eye at the initiation of the monocular trial); the adjusted IOP change (the unadjusted IOP change minus the comparable IOP change in the untreated fellow eye between the same 2 visits); and the long-term IOP change (the difference of the mean of the 2 on-treatment IOP values during bilateral use and the mean of the 2 pretreatment IOP values).
The relationship between short- and long-term IOP reduction, with the coefficient of determination (the square of the Pearson correlation coefficient, r) as the measure of association.
A case series study of P.E.R.F.E.C.T. for PTERYGIUM was conducted by 1 surgeon with a 1-year follow-up to assess the recurrence, complication rate, and cosmesis.
A total of 111 consecutive patients with recurrent pterygium removals.
A major modification of conjunctival autograft surgery was used to treat recurrent pterygia.
The recurrence rate, complications, and cosmesis after excision of recurrent pterygia using P.E.R.F.E.C.T. for PTERYGIUM.
Retrospective, interventional case series with prospective component of pathologic evaluation of frozen tissue.
Sixty-two consecutive patients with HSV keratitis who underwent PKP.
A chart review and histopathologic examination of the excised host corneal button was performed to identify associations between clinical data and histopathologic presence of inflammation. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for interleukin (IL)-8 and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) chemokines and immunohistochemical staining for human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) antigens was also performed in inflamed and noninflamed specimens.
To determine whether the presence of subclinical inflammation at the time of PKP predicts allograft rejection.
Single-center, prospective clinical study.
Ten eyes (10 patients; 3 men and 7 women; mean age, 73.5+/-6.6 years [mean+/-standard deviation]) with bullous keratopathy were evaluated in this study.
In vivo laser confocal microscopy was performed before and 1, 3, and 6 months after nDSAEK.
Selected confocal images of corneal layers were evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively for degree of haze and density of deposits.
Retrospective comparative case series.
Consecutive patients who underwent 20- or 25-gauge PPVs at a single center over a multi-year period.
We analyzed 3597 consecutive PPVs. Patients with a pre-PPV diagnosis of endophthalmitis, PPVs performed for implantation of drug delivery devices, or 25-gauge PPVs with all sclerotomies sutured closed were excluded. Patients with &gt; or =1 week of follow-up were divided into 2 study groups by sclerotomy status at the end of surgery: the 20-gauge group had 3 sutured 20-gauge sclerotomies, and the 25-gauge group had &gt; or =1 unsutured 25-gauge sclerotomy. Endophthalmitis was defined by clinical criteria independent of microbiological results.
The incidence of endophthalmitis was compared between 25- versus 20-gauge groups.
Population-based retrospective chart review (cross-sectional study).
Ninety-four eyes of 85 patients who were residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota.
A population-based retrospective chart review was performed for all diagnoses of macular hole between 1992 and 2002 among residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota. Yearly incidence rates for each given age and sex group were determined by dividing the number of cases within that group by the estimated total Olmsted County resident population of the group for that given year.
Documented clinical diagnosis of a macular hole.
Retrospective cohort study.
The study included 157 patients with suspected TB uveitis seen over an 18-month period (August 1, 2006, to February 31, 2007) at the Singapore National Eye Center (SNEC) uveitis clinic.
We identified all cases of suspected TB uveitis in the above-mentioned time period and reviewed all medical records of the cases. Clinical findings, type of treatment instituted, response to treatment, and results of investigations such as QFT, tuberculin skin test (TST), and chest x-rays were recorded. A novel method of using treatment response to determine the presumed diagnosis of TB was used to estimate the accuracy of QFT and TST.
The positive likelihood ratio (LR+), negative likelihood ratio (LR-), and area under the receiver operator characteristic curve (ROC) of the investigations were estimated.
Studies of stereoacuity maturation during normal development, studies of stereoacuity outcomes after treatment for infantile and accommodative esotropia, and studies of primate models of esotropia are reviewed.
Nine myopic and 11 emmetropic children fixated a near target at a distance of 33 cm. Measures of binocular and monocular accommodation and phoria were obtained during a 20-min near task with and without +2 D lenses. Response AC/A ratios were determined from the experimental results. Vergence adaptation was quantified by the magnitude of reduction in phoria and the percentage of completeness (PC, return of adapted phoria to habitual level) after the near task.
Participants were 29 children with 59 age-matched controls (33 males and 35 females; mean age 12.4 +/- 1.8 years) and DS (9 to 16 years; 19 males and 10 females; mean age 12.8 +/- 1.9 years). Corneal curvature was measured using a hand-held keratometer. Refractive error was assessed by distance static retinoscopy in the control group and Mohindra retinoscopy in the DS group.
Sweep VEP vernier acuity, sweep VEP grating acuity, and behavioral grating acuity (measured with PL cards) were measured in 29 patients with CVI. The patients ranged in age from 3.2 to 22.7 years (mean: 12.3; SD: 5.3). Because the measures of vernier acuity and grating acuity have different units, the results were expressed as the log deficit (with normal being 30 cycles per degrees and 0.5 arc min, respectively).
The current classification of albinism, and the cutaneous, ocular, and central nervous system characteristics are presented. Recent clinical findings are summarized.
Grating acuity was assessed monocularly in 45 patients with unilateral amblyopia, 44 patients at risk for amblyopia, and 37 children with no known vision disorders. Each child's grating acuity was classified as normal/abnormal based on age-appropriate norms. These classifications were compared with formal amblyopia diagnoses.
Thirty-one VGB patients and 10 control subjects, median age 6 years, were recruited. Visual field extent on the major oblique meridia was tested with a 6 degrees white sphere and WSKP, a method used by Quinn et al. to study field extent in children with retinopathy of prematurity. The same meridia were tested using Goldmann kinetic perimetry (GKP; 1.7 degrees target) in those who were capable. Monocular and binocular tests were conducted. Visual field extent for WSKP and GKP were compared in VGB patients and control subjects.
Subjects were 49 children, aged 8 to 15 years. Subjects wore habitual correction over their left eye and an infrared filter over the right eye during accommodative measurements. Monocular accommodation was measured continuously for two, 30-second periods using a PowerRef I at a sampling rate of 25 Hz while subjects viewed a high-contrast target at 0.25 m. The high (1.0 to 2.3 Hz) and low- (0 to 0.6 Hz) frequency components of the power spectrum from a fast Fourier transform of the accommodative response were used in analysis. Resting tension on the crystalline lens was assessed by measuring the amplitude of the oscillations of the crystalline lens after a rightward 20 degrees saccadic eye movement. Ciliary body thickness was measured 2 mm posterior to the scleral spur from images obtained with a Zeiss Visante optical coherence tomography (OCT). Cycloplegic spherical equivalent refractive error was obtained with the Grand Seiko autorefractor.
Subjects were recruited from visitors at Glasgow Science Centre. One hundred thirty-five healthy children and young adults were tested (range: 5-22 years). After a comprehensive visual screening to establish normal visual function, all three subtests of the UFOV (1: Processing Speed; 2: Divided Attention; 3: Selective Attention) were performed. RESULTS.: All the children were able to understand and complete all subtests. UFOV scores improved monotonically with age, for all subtests, throughout the primary school years, with subtest 3 showing the greatest improvement. By age 14, UFOV scores had reached adult levels.
Accommodative responses were measured in 101 subjects (3 to 40 years) with at least 10 subjects in each 5-year age bin. Subjects monocularly viewed a high-contrast target at 33.3 cm on the near-point rod of the Grand Seiko autorefractor. Measurements of refraction were taken as the subject viewed the target. Accommodative lag was defined as the difference between demand and measured response. Four additional demands were tested by introducing minus lenses [-1 to -4 diopter (D)] in the spectacle plane of the viewing eye. Maximum accommodative amplitudes were determined by presenting additional lenses until the measured response plateaued or peaked. Accommodative demands and responses were adjusted to the corneal plane. RESULTS.: Accommodative lag showed a significant linear decrease with age for subjects 3 to 20 years for each of the first four demands (3 D, 3.92 D, 4.80 D, 5.67 D, p &lt;or= 0.013) and approached significance for the largest demand (6.52 D, p = 0.053). For the entire group, accommodative lag increased with increasing stimulus demand, with the largest increase occurring for subjects aged 30 to 40 years as stimulus demands approached the subjects' maximum amplitude. For subjects aged 3 to 20 years, multilevel modeling analysis revealed a significant relationship between age and lag (p &lt; 0.0001) and a significant relationship between maximum amplitude and the increase in lag per unit increase in stimulus demand (p = 0.0032).
One hundred fifty-eight children aged 8 to 11 years completed the DEM test and a battery of eye movement tasks, recorded by a Microguide 1000 infrared eye tracker. All subjects completed a symptomatology survey. Reading performance and visual processing data was collected for 77 and 75 children, respectively.
Defocus at distance and near (57 cm) was assessed using Mohindra and dynamic retinoscopy, respectively, in 262 normal birthweight infants at 3, 9, and 18 months of age. Preferential looking provided acuity data at the same ages. The spherical equivalent refractive error was measured by cycloplegic retinoscopy (cyclopentolate 1%).
Participants were 29 infants from 15 to 28 weeks of age, two children, one adolescent, and nine adults. Visual evoked potentials were elicited by horizontal square-wave gratings contrast-reversed at 7.5 Hz. Spatial frequencies of 0.75 and 1.5 cpd were used, and contrast was swept in seven octave steps from 1 to 64% with an initial step at 0%. There were 10 runs of each condition (8.5 s each). Fourier analysis was used to derive amplitude and phase of the dominant (second harmonic) frequency component in the response, which were then plotted vs. contrast. The empirical contrast response functions were fitted using a nonlinear model, which generates estimates of shunting inhibition, conductance, and the integrative time constant in the system.
Tests were constructed in the form of the Farnsworth-Munsell style of arrangement test with constant intervals of metric lightness (CIE L*). Four intervals (DeltaL* = 15, 10, 5, and 3) were used. The child was instructed to arrange the colors from darker to lighter (or vice versa).
Eye movements were assessed with the Developmental Eye Movement (DEM) test, in a group of children with amblyopia (n = 39; age, 9.1 +/- 0.9 years) of different causes (infantile esotropia, n = 7; acquired strabismus, n = 10; anisometropia, n = 8; mixed, n = 8; deprivation, n = 6) and in an age-matched control group (n = 42; age, 9.3 +/- 0.4 years). LogMAR visual acuity (VA), stereoacuity, and refractive error were also recorded in both groups.
Two hundred thirty-six normal subjects, ranging in age from 0.25- to 78-years old, participated in the study. Global hyperacuity (detection threshold for radial deformation) was obtained from 300 eyes using either a computerized testing or a chart testing protocol and spatial forced choice (preferential looking for &lt;2.6-year old, pointing for young children, or verbal response for older children and adults). Resolution acuity was also measured. The developmental courses for global hyperacuity and resolution acuity were fit to a 3-segment curve to capture the initial rapid development, followed by a period of stable, adult-level visual function and, finally, the decline in visual function with aging.
In a population-based cohort of children in the Multi-Ethnic Pediatric Eye Disease Study, monocular HOTV VA measurements using the Amblyopia Treatment Study protocol were analyzed using continuous and dichotomous outcomes for VA and IOD, after excluding subjects with ophthalmic abnormalities or refractive error.
Confirmed HbSS patients or caregivers attending the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu, Nigeria, were interviewed, using a questionnaire, on their last painful episode.
Forty-two children diagnosed with moderate aplastic anemia from 1993 to 2006 were retrospectively reviewed. Eighteen patients treated with ATG, cyclosporin A (CSA), and androgen are defined as the ATG group, the other 24 patients treated with CSA and androgen are defined as the non-ATG group. Survival and hematological response of the two groups were studied.
The authors reviewed the clinical data on 60 patients &lt;21 years old with limb RMS treated at the Pediatric Oncology Unit of the Istituto Nazionale Tumori of Milan, in Italy, over a 30-year period. Twelve patients had tumors arising in the hand and foot.
Twenty-four children with MDS were analyzed retrospectively. Median age of the patients was 10 years. Twenty patients received a bone marrow graft and 4 an unrelated cord blood (UCB) transplant; 12 bone marrow grafts were from a matched related donor (MRD) and 8 from a matched unrelated donor (MUD). Conditioning regimen consisted of chemotherapy alone in 17 patients (busulfan and cyclophosphamide +/- melfalan) Seven patients received TBI and cyclophosphamide.
Daoy, SSTR2A positive medulloblastoma cell culture was tested with octreotide in monotherapy and combined with cisplatin, etoposide, and vincristine. Daoy medulloblastoma mice xenograft was treated with octreotide alone.
DTI at term age and BAEP measurements were performed on all very-low-birth-weight or very preterm study infants (n=56). FA and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) of the inferior colliculus were measured from the DTI.
VLBW infants referred for image-guided therapy between 1998 and 2005 were identified and medical records reviewed. "Complications" were divided into: major or minor, periprocedural or postprocedural, and intervention-/device-related, patient-related or equipment-related. Transport risk index of physiological stability (TRIPS) scores were calculated.
A retrospective study was performed looking at all CT angiograms from 2000 to 2007 in infants &lt;2 years of age. The incidence of THADs was compared among four age groups. Significance was determined using a logistic regression model.
A retrospective database review was made from 1989 to 2007 of patients diagnosed with extrarenal RT in infancy, i.e. below 12 months of age.
A group of 50 consecutive patients with postoperative ARM and in whom spinal MRI had been performed were identified retrospectively. We reviewed and compared the following factors between those with a high lesion and those with a low lesion: (1) clinical symptoms, (2) spinal cord anomalies, and (3) vertebral anomalies.
Included in the study were 37 children (22 girls and 15 boys; age range 7-15 years, mean 11.67 years) with IBD who underwent MR imaging of the small bowel. Of these 37 children, 32 had Crohn disease and 5 had indeterminate colitis. A water solution containing herbal fibres was administered orally or through a nasogastric tube. Patients were imaged on a 1.5-T MR scanner with T1-weighted and Tau2-weighted sequences followed by a dynamic study using 3-D T1-W images after intravenous administration of gadolinium.
Between 1990 and 2007, five patients with a cystic lesion situated in the anterior neck, at the vallecular space, were seen in our institution. Clinical records and imaging findings were retrospectively reviewed.
We conducted a comprehensive search of our radiology database of the last 10 years (1999-2008) for the keywords "neonatal hemochromatosis." Medical records and imaging studies of various modalities were reviewed.
Rifampicin was encapsulated in PLGA nanoparticles by a solvent evaporation process, spray dried into PNAPs containing varying amounts of nanoparticles, and characterized for physical and aerosol properties. Pharmacokinetic studies were performed with formulations delivered to guinea pigs by intratracheal insufflation and compared to oral and intravenous delivery of rifampicin.
Polymers were synthesized by ring-opening polymerization of lactide and/or epsilon-caprolactone in the presence of monomethoxy PEG. (1)H NMR and GPC data showed that obtained polymers consisted of 70 wt.% hydrophilic PEG block and 30 wt.% lipophilic PLA, PCL, PLACL block with molecular weights of 7,000.
Amphibinase analogues were encapsulated in poly(ricinoleic-co-sebacic acid) formulations using mix-melt technology and loaded onto surgical foam. In-vitro release was monitored by BCA colorimetry and by RNAse specific bioactivity. The implants were inserted into rat brains bearing 9L glioma to assess toxicity and efficacy.
h-IFN was administered at a dose of 5 million IU/kg. For some experiments, tacrolimus was also either subcutaneously or intravenously injected in rats at a dose of 0.001 or 0.5 mg/kg as well as with administration of h-IFN.
The distribution volume of the terminal phase (Vd(beta)) in humans was predicted by three methods using animal pharmacokinetic data. Then, total body clearance (CL(tot)) was calculated by multiplying the elimination rate constant and Vd(beta), and the BA was calculated as a ratio between CL(tot) and oral clearance. The predicted and observed values were compared for 67 drugs for which pharmacokinetic data after intravenous administration in humans were available.
We have designed and synthesized new difluoro Knoevenagel condensates of curcumin and Schiff bases along with their copper (II) complexes and evaluated their biological activities with respect to the inhibitory effects on purified rabbit 26S proteasome, and growth inhibition and induction of apoptosis in colon and pancreatic cancer cell lines.
The effect of danshensu on tHcy was assessed in rats after simultaneously methionine loading. Danshensu, its methylated metabolite and tHcy were all quantified after single intravenous injection of 20 mg/kg danshensu. The bidirectional effect, of which, elevated by danshensu methylation and decreased via transsulfuration promotion, was characterized by a PK-PD model, where direct stimulatory sigmoidal function and time-dependent transduction function were introduced for the two effects description, respectively.
Inhibition was investigated in cellular and vesicular systems over-expressing single transporters. Computational models discriminating either single or general inhibitors from non-inhibitors were developed using multivariate statistics.
Twenty-seven drugs were screened initially for their potential to inhibit uptake of L-carnitine into a stably transfected hOCTN2-MDCK cell monolayer. A HipHop common features pharmacophore was developed and used to search a drug database. Fifty-three drugs, including some not predicted to be inhibitors, were selected and screened in vitro.
Male Wistar rats received one intranasal cannula, an intra-cerebral microdialysis probe, and two blood cannulas for drug administration and serial blood sampling respectively. To evaluate this novel model, the following experiments were conducted. 1) Evans Blue was administered to verify the selectivity of intranasal exposure. 2) During a 1 min infusion 10, 20, or 40 microl saline was administered intranasally or 250 microl intravenously. Corticosterone plasma concentrations over time were compared as biomarkers for stress. 3) 200 microg of the model drug acetaminophen was given in identical setup and plasma, and brain pharmacokinetics were determined.
We investigated their in vitro gastrointestinal lipolysis to understand which compounds are, after digestion, responsible for keeping poorly water-soluble drugs in solution. The precipitation of piroxicam and cinnarizine formulated in these excipients during the gastrointestinal lipolysis was also studied.
The sub-cellular localization of coumarin-6 labeled chitosan/GMO nanostructures was determined by confocal microscopy in MDA-MB-231 cells. The antitumor efficacy was evaluated in two separate studies using FOX-Chase (CB17) SCID Female-Mice MDA-MB-231 xenograph model. Treatments consisted of intravenous Taxol or chitosan/GMO nanostructures with or without PTX, local intra-tumor bolus of Taxol or chitosan/GMO nanostructures with or without PTX. The tumor diameter and animal weight was monitored at various intervals. Histopathological changes were evaluated in end-point tumors.
Data from 41 subjects receiving cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin were used to develop the ANC model consisting of a drug-sensitive progenitor cell compartment, linked to the peripheral blood compartment, through three transition compartments. PBSC were incorporated into the first transit compartment following a zero-order process, k(in), and the rebound effect was explained by a feedback mechanism. A 'kinetics of drug action' model was used to quantify the HDC effect on the progenitor cells according to a linear function, with a slope (alpha).
Simulations based on a pharmacokinetic model developed to describe fexofenadine disposition in humans were conducted to examine the impact of altered hepatobiliary transport on fexofenadine disposition. The effect of GF120918 on fexofenadine disposition was evaluated in human sandwich-cultured hepatocytes (SCH). Additionally, the effect of GF120918, bosentan, and taurocholate on fexofenadine disposition in perfused livers from TR(-) Wistar rats was examined.
Biotinylated polyethyleneimine/avidin bioconjugate (ABP) was synthesized through grafting biotin to high molecular weight branched polyethylenimine (PEI, 25 kDa) and then bioconjugating with avidin by the biotin-avidin interaction. Physiochemical characteristics of ABP/pDNA complexes were analyzed, and in vitro cytotoxicity and transfection of ABP were also evaluated in HepG2, Hela and 293 T cells by using 25 kDa PEI as the control.
Maximum fluxes, stratum corneum solubilities and estimated diffusivities through human epidermis were therefore determined for 10 phenols with similar molecular weights and hydrogen bonding but varying in lipophilicity.
Infrared and Raman spectroscopy were used to detect and quantify the formation of free base in physical mixtures with excipients. The pH-solubility relationships were determined based on measured salt solubilities and properties of the free form.
Using a rational experimental design, we have studied the influence of a number of orthogonal factors (pH, concentrations, ratios of components, different methods of mixing) in the preparation of chitosan/triphosphate (TPP) nanoparticles and in their coating with hyaluronic acid (HA), aiming at the minimisation of size polydispersity, the maximisation of zeta potential and long-term stability, and at the control over average nanoparticle size.
Three poly-(epsilon-caprolactone) (CAPA) formulations were examined to assess the impact of particle size. Three other formulations, based on cellulose acetate butyrate (CAB), CAPA and polystyrene were studied to address the role of polymer hydrophobicity. In vitro skin permeation, and confocal microscopy and stratum corneum (SC) tape-stripping were used to evaluate the cutaneous disposition of NR.
The penetration profiles of PLA particles (228 and 365 nm) and the release of dye from the particles were investigated in human skin explants using fluorescence microscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy and flow cytometry.
Stratifin was complexed to chitosan particles, which were then encapsulated in PLGA microspheres and blended into crosslinked hyaluronic acid films. In vitro release was assessed using fluorescent-tagged stratifin, cytotoxicity by MTT assay and bioactivity by measuring the levels of MMP-1 expression in cultured fibroblasts.
The divalent cationic salts, calcium chloride and manganese chloride, previously shown to disrupt peptide sorption, were introduced in PLGA microspheres prepared by the double emulsion-solvent evaporation method. Peptide stability was monitored by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and identified by liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS) during microsphere degradation under physiological conditions for 4 weeks. Microsphere morphology and salt content were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), respectively.
The central pharmacy at the Percy French military hospital (France).
The check of the unit dose medication cassettes was performed by pharmacists to identify dispensing errors before delivering to the care units. From April 2006 to December 2006, detected errors were corrected and recorded into seven categories: unauthorized drug, wrong dosage-form, improper dose, omission, wrong time, deteriorated drug, and wrong patient errors.
Dispensing error rate, calculated by dividing the total of detected errors by the total of filled and omitted doses; classification of recorded dispensing errors.
Pharmacy practice in Australia.
A psychometric instrument, the Professional Ethics in Pharmacy (PEP) test, was developed and validated following a systematic procedure. The theoretical foundation of the instrument was based on a hypothesised theory of cognitive moral development in professional ethics, which was integrated into a selection of scenarios experienced in practice by pharmacists in NSW, Australia. The PEP, along with the well established DIT test, was mailed in the form of a questionnaire to a randomly selected sample of 1,500 practising pharmacists. Data collected from returned questionnaires were statistically analysed to establish validity and reliability of the instrument.
The P-score calculated for each participant from DIT and PEP data and defined as a measure of principled moral reasoning, represented the main outcome measure for statistical testing. Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to determine the strength of the relationship of the PEP with the DIT (regarded as the "gold standard") in order to establish criterion and concurrent validity. Factor analysis was used to investigate construct validity. Cronbach's Alpha, a measure of reliability of the instrument, was used for indicating internal consistency. Linear regression models further investigated construct validity in relation to predictors of moral reasoning.
Data were gathered from an anonymous postal questionnaire survey of patients purchasing OTC medicines in a random sample of Flemish community pharmacies in April 2008. The self-administered questionnaire related to the most recent purchase of OTC medicines by a patient in a community pharmacy. The questionnaire included questions about: (a) sources of information about OTC medicines; (b) the patient relationship with pharmacist and physician; (c) organization and layout of the pharmacy; (d) distribution channels; and (e) patient satisfaction. Questions were generally measured using Likert scales. The questionnaire was piloted among patients.
A drug-oriented prospective observational study was performed. Physicians filled in clinical observation forms with detailed information of the patients including general information, drug information, therapeutic effects and adverse drug events. The adverse drug reaction factors were analyzed by both mono-factor and multiple-factor logistic regression methods.
Fourteen questions with a 5-item likert-scale from "never" (4) to "very often" (0) were given to 150 medical inpatients. According to their score, patients were classified into non-adherent (score &lt;50) or adherent (score 50-56). On the dichotomous MMAS, "yes" is scored 0 and "no" 1 point, a total score of 4 indicating adherence. Patients with complete scales were compared with the remaining patients regarding socio-demographic factors. Descriptive statistics, Cronbach's Alpha, Spearman correlation, and kappa were computed.
Three observers performed a visual estimation of weight in 71 geriatric patients. Estimated body weights from each observer were compared to measured body weights. Various panels--three panels of two observers and two panels of three observers--were also evaluated.
University hospital providing primary and tertiary care.
Using Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification codes we allocated to drug specifying ICD-10 codes (i.e. Z88) all drugs belonging to the same group of compounds or those known to induce cross-allergy. In a randomly selected cohort of 200 in-patients we then assessed documentation and coding of drug allergies and incident prescribing errors ignoring patients' drug allergies.
Ambulatory diabetic clinics of the secondary-level care General Hospital of Hatyai district, Songkhla province, South Thailand.
A cross-sectional study was carried out for the objective (1). A retrospective cohort study was applied to meet the objective (2). Out-patient medical case notes were reviewed for metformin use, number of hospitalizations, lactic acidosis cases, death cases, and the presence of contraindications, which were limited to: (1) chronic renal impairments, (2) chronic liver diseases, and (3) cardiac failure. Only documented diagnoses of the above conditions were counted.
The prevalence of metformin use in type 2 diabetes with a contraindication; odds ratios (ORs) of the occurrences of lactic acidosis, hospitalization, and death in type 2 diabetes with a contraindication modified by metformin use.
The screening was piloted in five Australian community pharmacies.
The Pharmacy Tool for Assessment of Sleep Health was constructed by drawing on known relationships between sleep disorders, and lifestyle factors, medical conditions and medications. Four validated instruments were used in the screening tool: the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), Multivariable Apnea Prediction Index (MAPI) and International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group Screening Criteria (IRLS). These instruments were used to predict the participant's risk of a sleep disorder and the results were compared with reported lifestyle, medical and medication factors. On-site training of consenting pharmacists was provided, followed by an eight week client recruiting and screening period. Feedback was elicited from participating pharmacists and clients.
The feasibility of, and trends found from, the developed screening tool and protocol.
A mail survey was sent to a random sample of 500 physicians practicing in West Virginia. Multiple linear regression was used to test the model.
The independent variables included prescription volume, specialty type, years of practice, gender, academic affiliation, practice size, physicians' attitudes toward collaborative agreement, and physician-pharmacist communication frequency. Additionally, physician age was included as a control variable.
Data was obtained from 104 psychiatrically hospitalized adolescents in a larger assessment study. Adolescents were genotyped for the DRD2 TaqIA site, grouped as carriers of the A1 allele (A1+) or homozygous for the A2 allelle (A1-). Associations of the presence of the A1 allele with externalizing disorders, the intermediate phenotype of impulsivity, and measures of alcohol and drug use were examined.
Non-binge and binge drinkers were identified according to their binge score derived from the Alcohol Use Questionnaire. Cognitive performance was tested with the Spatial Working Memory task (SWM) linked to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, Intra/Extradimensional Shift and reversal task (IED) linked to dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (shift) and to orbitofrontal cortex (reversal), Paired Associates Learning task (PAL) linked to temporal cortex, and Reaction Time Task (RTI) a task measuring motor impulsivity (Inferior frontal gyrus). Personality traits, alcohol outcome expectancies and mood were also evaluated.
Cases with CHD diagnosed by prenatal FECHO performed at a single institution from January 2000 to June 2005 were retrospectively reviewed. The accuracy of prenatal diagnosis and the appropriateness of proposed care plans based on FECHO were compared to postnatal care plans based on neonatal echocardiograms (NECHOs).
Volume data sets of 81 fetuses with fetal cardiac anomalies, as previously diagnosed by 2D US, were acquired by 3D and cine 4D using spatiotemporal image correlation (STIC) software. Various additional rendering tools were applied. Color, power, high definition Doppler and B-flow were added to the volumes acquired. A retrospective offline analysis of the cardiac defects was performed.
From February through August 2004, 79 couples who requested for prenatal screening at centers from Argentina and Uruguay participated in a study. A cross-sectional survey was administered to assess attitudes toward prenatal screening, the decision-making process, and knowledge and attitudes toward TOP.
At day 23 (pseudoglandular phase; term = 31 d), 54 ovarian-end fetuses from 27 does underwent induction of CDH. Thirteen did receive either 0.05 mg/kg BM, on days 28 and 29 with a 24-h interval, or 14 saline [controls (CTR)]. At day 28, one ovarian-end fetus underwent TO and harvesting was at term. In total, we compared (ANOVA) lung-to-body weight ratio (LBWR) and vascular morphometric indices in survivors from the following groups (n - number alive at delivery): CDH (9); CDH + TO (10); unoperated controls (14); CDH + BM (10); CDH + TO (9); controls CTR + BM (13).
Ultrasound database (1988-2002) was searched for omphalocele. Categories assigned as (1) isolated-no additional structural/karyotype anomalies, (2) associated minor abnormality, and (3) major structural/karyotype abnormalities.
Literature and new cases classified as Group I (pre-HRAS), Group II (HRAS confirmed), and Group III (HRAS confirmed in natural history study, plus three contributed cases).
Over 5 years, five fetuses were diagnosed with achondroplasia at the Grenoble Prenatal Diagnosis Centre. Ultrasound and tomographic examinations were performed by specialists. To study the proximal metaphysis, the ultrasound transducer was positioned at a 45 degree angle to the diaphyseal axis. Postnatal diagnosis was confirmed.
A cross-sectional design was used. The study group consisted of pregnant women at 16 gestational weeks or more referred to our ultrasound unit for amniocentesis. Amniotic fluid was assayed for levels of GGT and other hepatobiliary enzymes using the Integra 800 device. The 5th and 95th percentiles for each gestational week were calculated.
Peripheral blood samples were obtained from pregnant women with and without pre-eclampsia. Cellular RNA was subjected to a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay in order to examine the mRNA distribution among women with pre-eclampsia (n = 24) and control subjects (n = 24) during 35-41 weeks of gestation. The data were analyzed by non-parametric statistics.
Peripheral blood samples were collected from 220 women and from members of five families with proven HA. One-tube fluorescent PCR and capillary electrophoresis were performed to investigate four short tandem repeats (STRs) in intron 1, 13, 22 and 24 (STR1, STR13, STR22 and STR24, respectively) in FVIII.
All 25-55-year-old, non-self-employed, Korean workers who were diagnosed with cancer for the first time in 2001 were identified as first baseline study subjects (n=4991). Of these, those who lost their jobs within 1 year of cancer diagnosis were selected as second baseline subjects (n=1334). Sex- and age-matched cancer-free individuals from the general population were used as a reference group. We compared the time until job loss from the first baseline and the time until re-employment from the second baseline between these two groups during the 5-6-year follow-up period while adjusting for sex, age group, job-type, and equivalent household income using the National Health Insurance administrative database.
Electronic searches were conducted in four databases. Studies were included only if they were exclusively designed for adolescent cancer patients and incorporated a defined outcome measure to evaluate the effects of the implemented intervention.
This study was based on the 2006 Korean National Cancer Screening Survey conducted by the National Cancer Center, in which trained interviewers met face-to-face with participants selected by a nationally representative random sampling. The participants included 1673 adults, aged 40 years or older, who had not previously been diagnosed with cancer. Simple and multiple ordinal regression were used to determine the associations between perceived risk and socio-demographic, lifestyle, health, and psychological factors.
A convenience sample of 199 patients with cancer at a Turkish university hospital completed a structured questionnaire including demographic characteristics and the treatment decision evaluation for patients with cancer in 2006. In analysis of the data, descriptive statistics, and multiple regression analysis were used.
Ninety-three women receiving radiation treatment for breast cancer completed questionnaires that measured EWB, optimism, SS, PFC, and self-transcendence.
Participants were 397 women obtaining a screening mammogram (i.e. index) at three university-affiliated radiology clinics. Following the index mammogram, women completed the measures assessing demographic background, health history, breast cancer knowledge, risk, and screening history, and aspects of the mammography experience. Eighteen months following the index mammogram, 296 women were contacted via telephone to assess repeat mammography behavior.
This Canadian multi-institutional cross-sectional study included children with cancer receiving any type of active treatment. The primary caregiver rated child prognosis on a 5-point categorical rating scale. For each child, five pediatric oncologists rated prognosis according to child- and disease-related characteristics.
A cross-sectional study with a case-control study design was conducted. Level of satisfaction with nasal appearance and psychosocial functioning were assessed with validated questionnaires.
Eighty-six participants in a state-funded program that provides free prostate cancer treatment to uninsured, low-income men completed written surveys and telephone interviews containing validated measures of spirituality, and general and disease-specific HRQOL. Assessments were made following diagnosis of metastatic disease. We used multivariate analyses to assess the effect of spirituality and its two subscales, faith and meaning/peace, on HRQOL.
Within the framework of an intervention study, 90 breast cancer patients after adjuvant chemotherapy were examined at three measurement points. The focus of this article is on the cognitive status at the last measurement point (on average, 9 months after the end of oncological therapy) and, in particular, on the correlations between subjective self-appraisal and neuropsychological test results.
Eleven participating children and their parents completed questionnaires about the disease-related skills that were taught in the intervention, before the intervention and 0-4 weeks after the intervention. In addition, parents were interviewed in focus groups.
In this cross-sectional study, 116 prostate cancer patients and their partners completed psychosocial questionnaires.
Emerging adult survivors of childhood cancer (n=60) and controls without a history of chronic illness (n=60) completed an online assessment of their romantic relationships, including perceived relationship satisfaction. Severity of initial treatment was rated by healthcare providers for participants with cancer.
Drug-naïve rhesus monkeys were provided limited access (1 h) to cocaine self-administration for 60 days followed by 60 days under an extended access condition (4 h). Basal levels of striatal extracellular dopamine and its metabolites, as well as the effectiveness of cocaine and amphetamine to elevate dopamine, were determined with in vivo microdialysis before the initiation of cocaine self-administration and during limited and extended access. The effect of cocaine and amphetamine on the acoustic startle response was also examined to assess complementary behavioral changes as a function of drug history.
Separate groups of rats were trained for 26 days on either a probabilistic (risk) or effort-discounting task, each consisting of four discrete blocks of ten choice trials. One lever always delivered a smaller reward (one or two pellets), whereas another lever delivered a four-pellet reward. For risk-discounting, the probability of receiving the larger reward decreased across trial blocks (100-12.5%), whereas on the effort task, four pellets could be obtained after a ratio of presses that increased across blocks (2-20). After training, rats received 15 saline or AMPH injections (escalating from 1 to 5 mg/kg) and were then retested during acute and long-term withdrawal.
In this study, we tested this hypothesis by manipulating the mood state of healthy females undergoing ATD (or balanced placebo) on two separate testing sessions. On the first session, subjects received either negative or neutral mood induction, while on the second session all subjects received neutral mood induction.
After hospitalization, the patients (n = 128) were given a 4-week course of aripiprazole. Patients were genotyped for HTR2A A-1438G/T102C polymorphisms via the restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Clinical factors such as gender, age, duration of illness, education level, diagnostic subtype, and medication dosage were noted as well. The researchers measured psychopathology biweekly, using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). A mixed model regression approach (SAS Proc MIXED) was used to analyze the effects of genetic and clinical factors on PANSS performance after aripiprazole treatment.
Procedures for use with juvenile rats at postnatal day (PND) 21 and 28 were adapted from the adult learned helplessness model in which, 24 h after exposure to inescapable stress, animals are unable to remove themselves from an easily escapable stressor. Rats were treated for 7 days with either the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor escitalopram at 10 mg/kg or the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine at 3, 10, or 15 mg/kg to determine if treatment could decrease escape latency times.
Male Wistar rats (n = 5-7 per group) received microinjections of the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine (1-60 nmol) in the ventral portion of the mPFC and were exposed to the elevated plus maze (EPM) or to the Vogel conflict test.
Participants were 34 adult smokers randomized into one of two conditions: 14-day (14C) and 1-day (1C) contingent payment for smoking abstinence. Smoking status and participant ratings were assessed daily; a delay discounting task involving hypothetical money and an inter-temporal choice task involving hypothetical money and cigarettes were administered at baseline and days 7 and 14; a direct test of preference for smoking versus money was assessed on day 14.
We measured amphetamine enhancement of brain stimulation reward, changes in sucrose intake, as well as striatal cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) activity, a molecular index previously associated with depressant-like behavior. Moreover, since alteration of psychomotor activity is also a common symptom of depression, and psychostimulant reward and locomotion are thought to share common neurobiology, we used the same treatment schedule of amphetamine to probe for changes in locomotion.
Lister-hooded rats were trained on the rodent version of the stop-signal task and administered different monoamine transporter inhibitors: citalopram, which selectively blocks the serotonin transporter; atomoxetine, which selectively blocks the noradrenaline transporter; and GBR-12909, which selectively blocks the dopamine transporter (DAT), and the alpha-2 adrenergic agonist guanfacine.
WIN was tested under an unbiased conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. Blood pressure after WIN administration was also monitored in additional groups of rats.
The behavioral effects of MDMA, with and without serotonergic or dopaminergic pretreatments, were studied in squirrel monkeys trained to respond under a fixed-interval schedule of stimulus termination; effects on caudate dopamine levels were studied in a separate group of squirrel monkeys using in vivo microdialysis. Positron emission tomography neuroimaging with the dopamine transporter (DAT) ligand [18F]FECNT was used to determine DAT occupancy by MDMA in rhesus monkeys.
The effects of acute and repeated treatment with the potent, selective Sig-1R antagonist NE-100 on ethanol intake (10%) were studied in adult, male Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats, a model of genetic predisposition to high ethanol drinking. To assess the specificity of action, the acute effects of NE-100 on intake of an equally preferred sucrose solution and of a higher concentration of ethanol that sP rats did not prefer over water (28%), were determined. Finally, the ability of NE-100 administration to prevent the increased ethanol intake that occurs after deprivation was evaluated.
a transversal study performed in high-risk pregnant women submitted to obstetrical morphological ultrasound, from March 2002 to March 2006, at an institution from Recife, Pernambuco, Brasil. The intrauterine diagnosis was confirmed after birth. Sociodemographic and obstetrical characteristics, amniotic liquid volume and presence of fetal anomalies were the variables studied. Fisher's exact, chi2, and Student's t tests, at a significance level of 5% were applied to verify the correlation among the variables. Prevalence rate and confidence interval at 95% were calculated. Multiple logistic regression analysis was performed at a significance level of 5%.
ecological and exploratory study, using data from the Health Information System about born alive babies in 2004, and using geoprocessing techniques. The spatial autocorrelations of the variables: cesarean section, mother's schooling, low birth weight, Apgar score at five minutes, prematurity, number of medical appointments and adolescent mothers, besides the map with the index of human development were estimated. For the detection of spatial events aggregates, Moran's I M statistics, through the program Terra View 3.13 (developed by INPE and available to the public) was used. Spatial maps with those variables were built, and Pearson's correlation coefficients, estimated.
a questionnaire with open and closed questions on epidemiological clinical data was applied initially. Then, mycological diagnosis with sowing in Chrom Agar Candida was done, followed by micro-morphological and biochemical identification. Specific methods for the detection of the virulence factors, proteinase and phospholipase were employed. Statistical analysis was performed through chi2 and Pearson's chi2 tests.
cases study of patients submitted to Burch's surgery, from 1992 to 2003. Patients were evaluated at the second post-surgery appointment (average 66 days) and after one-year follow-up, and classified in two groups: Continent and Non-continent. Variables analyzed were: age, parity, body mass index (BMI), menopause duration, duration of hormonal therapy, urodynamic evaluation, history of urinary tract infection, previous urinary incontinence surgery, diabetes, cystocele and uterine prolapse, time spent in hospital, necessity of self-probing, post-surgical spontaneous micturition, and surgical wound. Data were analyzed with the Statistical Package for Social Sciences 14.0 statistical package. For the comparison of continuous variables, Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney test were used, and Fisher exact and chi2 tests, for the categorical variables (p&lt;0.05).
lactobacillus have been isolated in selective milieu from samples of the vaginal contents of 135 women without complaints of vaginal secretion, and with negative laboratorial diagnosis of vaginal infection, followed up at an outpatient clinic. After being identified by multiplex PCR, the isolates have been submitted to RNAr 16S gene sequencing, when necessary. They have also been evaluated concerning the production of lactic acid, H2O2, bacteriocins and the ability to adhere to epithelial cells.
a clinical transversal study, carried out with 250 post-menopausal women, with ages from 45 to 70 years old, attended to in Healthcare Units, from September 2007 to August 2008. Participants were divided into two groups: HT users (n=70) and non-users (n=180). Women making continuous HT use for at least six months were considered as users. Sociodemographic and clinical characteristics have been evaluated. Blatt-Kupperman's menopausal index has been applied to assess climacteric symptoms, and the Women's Health Questionnaire (WHQ), to assess their quality of life. Fisher's exact test or chi2 and Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis's tests have been used for the statistical analysis.
This was an experimental study. The sample comprised 201 subjects, mean age 38.15 years. The participants were randomly divided into groups of zero, 30 and 60 minutes of nicotine abstinence. The following instruments were administered: the Chart of Sociodemographic Data, the Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence, the Questionnaire of Smoking Urges, and the Coping Strategies Inventory.
Cross-sectional study, with probabilistic sampling encompassing 20% of the municipal elementary schools located in the city of São Paulo from which educators were enrolled to answer three questionnaires: 1) professional and personal data; 2) assessment of their attitudes in drug abuse situations; 3) assessment of their knowledge on drug abuse.
Suicides were evaluated using the chi-square test and analysis of variance (ANOVA) by comparing monthly, quarterly and half-yearly variations, differentiating by gender. Analyses of time series were carried out using the autocorrelation function and periodogram, while the significance level for seasonality was confirmed with the Fisher's test.
illicit drug dependent patients (n = 137) and controls (n = 274) were interviewed using the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Studies, in order to detect lifetime and current depressive disorder and illicit (cocaine, cannabis or inhalants) substance dependence. A regression analysis was used to estimate the odds ratio for drug dependence according to the diagnosis of depression.
One hundred and sixty-eight patients diagnosed with bipolar disorder (DSM-IV) were grouped according to type of first episode: depression or manic/hypomanic. Groups were compared for demographic and clinical variables. We performed logistic regression in order to test the association between first episode polarity and suicidal behavior.
A cross-sectional study with a random sample of 128 residents stratified by year of training was conducted. The Medical Outcome Study -short form 36 was administered. Mann-Whitney tests were carried out to compare percentile distributions of the eight quality of life domains, according to sociodemographic variables, and a multiple linear regression analysis was performed, followed by a validity checking for the resulting models.
333 subjects with a valid driver's license and drinking in the last 12 months were drawn from a multistaged sample of 2,346 adults from the first Brazilian Household Survey of Patterns of Alcohol Use. A multivariate analysis was conducted to understand the associations between risk factors and driving after drinking three or more drinks.
The -62A/T NFKBIL1 polymorphism was investigated in a sample of 111 patients who met DSM-IV criteria for obsessive-compulsive disorder and 272 healthy age- and gender-matched controls.
Sixty-four patients with bipolar disorder were assessed and their performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test was compared with the allele frequency and genotype of the val66met polymorphism of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor.
The performances of 186 children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder were compared to that of 80 control individuals based on attention and working memory scores. Both groups had been referred due to academic impairment. All individuals were submitted to the TAVIS-3 sustained, shifted and focused attention tests, as well as to the working memory tests that make up the WISC-III Freedom from Distractibility Index (Digit Span and Arithmetic).
Literature searches were performed in PubMed and SciELO databases up to February 2009. The terms searched were 'obesity', 'rimonabant', 'cannabinoids', 'unwanted effects', 'diabetes', 'smoking cessation' and 'side-effects'.
We conducted a search in PsycINFO, Biological Abstracts, Medline, Web of Science, Physical Education and SPORTDiscus Index from 1990 to 2008, using the following keywords: 'physical activity', 'physical therapy', 'exercise', 'fitness', 'aerobic', 'strength', 'intervention', 'cognition', 'cognitive performance', 'Alzheimer's disease', 'Alzheimer's dementia', 'Alzheimer's', and cross-references of selected articles.
A bibliographical research of controlled studies with samples larger than 10 participants from 1990 to June 2008 was completed in Medline, Lilacs, PubMed and ISI. Thirty-two papers were evaluated.
In this prospective study the fetal profile was examined and the fetal NBL and crown-rump length (CRL) were measured in Chinese women presenting with singleton pregnancies for first-trimester screening for aneuploidy between January 2004 and June 2007. Screening was performed on the basis of nuchal translucency (NT) measurement and maternal serum free beta-human chorionic gonadotropin and pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A levels.
The records of all fetuses with anomalies of the corpus callosum referred to the prenatal diagnosis units of two university hospitals from 2000 to 2007 were reviewed. Nine fetuses with a thick corpus callosum were identified.
In 85 women about to undergo therapeutic termination at 6-11 weeks' gestation we studied the embryonic brain mantle using a specially developed 20-MHz, flexible, catheter-based, high-resolution, real-time, miniature (1.8 mm in outer diameter) ultrasound transducer. Thickness of the embryonic brain telencephalon, diencephalon, mesencephalon and rhombencephalon was measured.
This was a cross-sectional study of the first cCTG record from 4412 singleton fetuses with good pregnancy outcome. Normal ranges of cCTG parameters for 25 to 42 weeks were derived from analysis of only one cCTG record per fetus, and the relationship between the parameters and gestational age was investigated.
CDMI was used to evaluate and compare myocardial velocities in the left and right ventricles in normal fetuses and in IUGR fetuses with CPR. Peak systolic tissue velocities (S') were acquired from both ventricular free walls in 20 IUGR fetuses (gestational age at scan ranged from 26 + 1 to 34 + 6 weeks, with serial measurements obtained in nine) and 42 normal fetuses (35 at week 28, with the remaining seven undergoing serial scans every 4 weeks, ranging from 18 + 6 to 39 + 1 weeks). Umbilical artery (UA), middle cerebral artery (MCA) and ductus venosus (DV) flows were also recorded.
We studied the medical population in the east part of France by sending a questionnaire to each of 460 medical correspondents. This questionnaire attempted to evaluate the respondent's level of medical knowledge, their personal opinion with respect to first-trimester screening and their attitude towards their patients. We adapted the three-dimensional diagram designed by Marteau et al. to develop a measure of informed choice regarding screening. Only health professionals who were relatively well informed and adopted an autonomy-oriented approach were considered to be in a position to obtain true consent from their patients, respecting ethical principles in terms of competence and the autonomy of patients.
Two hundred and eighty-seven women underwent transvaginal ultrasound examination 6-9 months after delivery: 108 had undergone one Cesarean section, 43 had had two Cesarean sections, 11 had undergone at least three Cesarean sections, and 125 were primiparae who had delivered vaginally. The ultrasound examiner was blinded to the obstetric history until all scans had been evaluated.
This was a national registry-based cohort study, including all singleton pregnant women who had an amniocentesis (n = 32 852) or CVS (n = 31 355) in Denmark between 1996 and 2006. Personal registration numbers of women having had an amniocentesis or a CVS were retrieved from the Danish Central Cytogenetic Registry, and cross-linked with the National Registry of Patients to determine the outcome of each pregnancy. Postprocedural fetal loss rate was defined as miscarriage or intrauterine demise before 24 weeks of gestation.
We pooled data from two multicenter medical abortion trials involving 2208 women who received mifepristone orally followed by misoprostol vaginally. Women returned for transvaginal ultrasonography approximately 7 days later. The endometrial thickness was measured if no gestational sac was present. Final status was confirmed by a phone interview at 5 weeks. The area under the receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve was calculated to assess the overall ability of endometrial thickness to predict the need for subsequent D&amp;C. Endometrial thickness was dichotomized using threshold values at 5-mm increments from 10 to 30 mm. The sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value were calculated to evaluate the ability of each endometrial thickness threshold value to predict subsequent D&amp;C. Multivariable regression analysis was performed to adjust endometrial thickness values for study, treatment group, and study site.
This was a retrospective analysis of data collected prospectively over 3 years. Women attending an early pregnancy unit underwent a transvaginal ultrasound examination. In women with a viable twin pregnancy between 7 + 0 and 9 + 6 weeks of gestation, the CRL ratio between the two embryos was calculated. Women were followed up and the intertwin discrepancy in CRL at the 7 + 0 to 9 + 6-week scan was compared between cases in which there was spontaneous reduction to a singleton and those in which both twins remained viable at the 11-14-week scan.
This was a prospective screening study for trisomy 21 in singleton pregnancies at 11 + 0 to 13 + 6 weeks of gestation using an algorithm combining maternal age, fetal NT thickness based on the mixture model for the assessment of NT, and maternal serum free beta-hCG and PAPP-A based on a multiple regression model for the assessment of serum biochemistry. The NT measurements were performed by 60 operators who had obtained The Fetal Medicine Foundation certificate of competence in the 11-13-week scan.
In a cross-sectional observational study we examined 12 Caucasian female BEEC patients, mean age 19.9 (range, 15.5-27.4) years, from a single center after a single-stage functional reconstruction with closure of the anterior pelvic ring. As a control group we used 13 Caucasian nulligravidae. 3D transperineal ultrasound volumes were acquired with the patient at rest in the supine position and with an empty bladder, and established pelvic floor parameters were measured. Analysis was conducted offline by two independent investigators.
This study included 14 IUGR fetuses with placental insufficiency (Group 1), 13 AGA fetuses with hypertensive mothers (Group 2), and 29 AGA fetuses with healthy mothers (Group 3). Patients with other diseases were excluded. All fetuses had a gestational age of at least 25 weeks. MTD assessment was performed with the sample volume placed at the basal segment of the left ventricular side wall (LV), the interventricular septum (IVS) and the right ventricular free wall (RV). E'/A' ratios were calculated for each location. Mitral and tricuspid flows were assessed by conventional spectral pulsed Doppler.
We reviewed 127 singleton pregnancies with placenta previa. Maternal history, antenatal ultrasound findings of the placenta, including location, presence of placental lacunae, lack of a clear zone, presence of sponge-like findings of the cervix and presence of a marginal sinus in cases of placenta previa were reviewed retrospectively, and their association with amount of bleeding during Cesarean section was analyzed.
Over a period of 9 months, all patients with an IUD presenting at our unit for two-dimensional pelvic ultrasound underwent a three-dimensional (3D) volume reconstruction of the coronal view, to visualize the entire IUD within the cavity. The IUD was deemed malpositioned if any part extended past the cavity, into the myometrium or cervix. The indications for ultrasound were recorded at presentation for the exam. The presenting symptoms of patients with an abnormally located IUD were compared with those with normally positioned ones.
In five fetuses with a CVI cyst, we performed targeted prenatal ultrasound scans of intracranial structures and a detailed anatomical survey to rule out associated malformations. Follow-up consisted of neurological examination and neurosonography.
In this cross-sectional study, Cesarean scar defects in women with a history of transverse lower-segment Cesarean section were measured by transvaginal ultrasound while being assessed for other gynecological conditions. The relationships between the size of the Cesarean scar defect and the clinical symptoms, uterine position and number of previous Cesarean sections were evaluated. Patients with other uterine pathologies, including endometrial hyperplasia, polyps, malignancy and submucosal myomas, were excluded from the study.
A retrospective review of all triplets who were followed with biweekly TVS for measurement of cervical length was conducted. Cervical shortening was defined as cervical length &lt;or= 2.5 cm. Outcomes of interest included cervical cerclage placement, gestational age at delivery and birth weight.
Chromosomal gains and losses in 16 cases of EDM were analyzed using comparative genomic hybridization.
The clinical, radiologic and pathologic features of brain tumors occurring in 35 patients with intractable epilepsy encountered during the period from January, 2005 to April, 2008 in Xuanwu Hospital were retrospectively reviewed.
Sixty-five autopsy cases died of primary brain stem injury and other diseases were enrolled into this study. The cases were subdivided into brain stem injury group (n = 25) and control group (including 20 cases died of cardiovascular disease and 20 cases died of non-cardiovascular diseases). The brain stem tissue sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin and silver impregnation techniques. Immunohisto chemical study for glial fibrillary acidic protein, neurofilament, amyloid-beta and myelin basic protein was carried out. The widest cross diameters of 10 axons highlighted by immunostaining were measured in each low power field (x 100) through light miscroscopy in all the cases studied.
Totally 40 cases of ONB were studied using histology and immunohistochemistry techniques. All the cases of ONB were graded according to Hyams Grading system.
Pathological characteristics of seven cases of orbital and extraorbital hemangiopericytoma-solitary fibrous tumors with giant cells were evaluated by HE and immunohistochemistry (EnVision method).
Immunohistochemical study for CD10, CXCL13, bcl-6 and CD21 was performed on 29 cases of AITL. Double immunostaining for bcl-6/CD3, CD10/CD21 and CD10/CD20 were also carried out. Cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, unspecified, extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal-type, enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma, anaplastic large cell lymphoma, subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma and reactive lymphoid proliferation were selected as controls.
Totally 183 cases of cervical lesions, including 32 non-neoplastic cervix, 71 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (28 CINI, 18 CINII, and 25 CINIII) and 80 squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) were selected from the Department of Pathology, Yanbian University Hospital, Yanbian Women Hospital, and Yanbian Tumor Hospital. Shh, Ihh, Ptch and Smo proteins expression were investigated by immunohistochemistry using tissue microarry platform, and the presence of HPV type 16 was detected by PCR method.
The telomerase activity of human glioblastoma TJ905 cells was determined by TRAP assay after 24 hrs' incubation with 50, 100, 200 micromol/L AZT and control vehicle solution. Colony formation efficiencies of the cells were recorded. Cells of the 1st, 3rd and 6th generations were harvested, followed by evaluations of cyclin A protein expression by Western blot, cell cycle distribution by flow cytometry, apoptotic level by single cell gel electrophoresis and proliferation index by Ki-67 immunocytochemical staining.
A retrospective analysis of 212 cases of ERCP-guided brush cytology smears performed during the period from January, 2004 to December, 2006. The cytologic diagnosis was confirmed either by the histologic diagnosis or the strict clinical criteria.
One hundred and fifteen cases of AITL, 30 cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL, NOS) and 30 cases of reactive lymph nodes with paracortical hyperplasia (RH) encountered during the period from January, 1990 to January, 2008 were retrieved from the archival files of the Department of Pathology, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, China. The morphologic features were reviewed and compared. Immunohistochemical study was performed by SP method for CXCL13, CD10, bcl-6, CD21, CD3epsilon, CD3, CD45RO, CD20 and Ki-67. TCR-gamma gene rearrangement study was also carried out.
Seventy-three cases of DLBCLs with follow-up data were studied by using immunohistochemistry for CD3, CD10, CD20, bcl-6 and MUM-1. The DLBCLs were classified into germinal center B cell-like (GCB) and non-germinal center B cell-like (non-GCB) subtypes according to Hans' algorithm. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) for bcl-6 gene expression (located on chromosome 3q27) was performed on paraffin-embedded tissues of 54 cases.
Fifty-five cases of EN-NK/TCL diagnosed in Chinese patients during the period from 1998 to 2007 were studied by light microscopy, immunohistochemistry and in-situ hybridization. The follow-up information was analyzed.
The clinical data, histologic findings and immunophenotype of 8 SMZL cases were studied. IgH gene rearrangement was performed in 1 case. Follow-up information was available in 4 patients.
The clinical data, hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections of lymph node biopsies and follow-up data of 18 cases of PTL-U associated with follicular growth pattern were reviewed and studied. Eight cases of reactive lymphoid hyperplasia were used as controls. Semi-quantitative observation by retiform micrometer rule was carried out. Immunohistochemical study was also performed in all cases. T-cell receptor and immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangement studies were conducted by polymerase chain reaction-based method.
Traditional phenol-chloroform method was used to extract DNA from 55 cases of archival paraffin embedded tissues samples of T-cell malignancies and the DNA quality was evaluated by PCR-based amplification of housekeeping gene beta-globin. The selected BIOMED-2 PCR multiplex tubes TCRgamma(A+B) were used to detect TCR gene rearrangement and comparison with the results of universal TCR primers (T(VG)/T(JX)) was performed.
Two autopsy cases of EV71 infection were studied by histopathological and immunohistochemical methods. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to detect the viral RNA in paraffin-embedded tissue samples.
Protein and mRNA expressions of KISS-1 were evaluated by Western blot and RT-PCR in four esophageal carcinoma cell lines (EC-1, Eca109, EC9706 and TE-1). Using liposome-mediated transfection, an eukaryotic expression vector (pcDNA3.1-KISS-1) of KISS-1 gene was transfected into EC-1 cells. Boyden chamber model, MTT and clone formation assay were used to detect the potential of invasion and proliferation.
Tiam1/C1199HA expression plasmids were transfected into nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells of C666-1 and CNE1 by lipofectamine2000. RT-PCR, real-time PCR and Western blot Analyses were performed to evaluate the expression of Tiam1 mRNA and protein levels, respectively. In vitro cell adhesion, wound healing and matrigel invasion assays were used to study the biological impact of Tiam1 on cell adhesion, mobility and invasion.
The expression of c-myc, p53 and p16 protein was evaluated by immunohistochemistry SP method in 35 cases of fibrous dysplasia including 1 FD with malignancy, 1 Mazabraud syndrome and 20 control cases (10 cases of bony callus, 10 cases of osteosarcoma). Genomic DNA extraction, PCR amplification and gene sequencing were used to detect GNAS1 gene mutation in 35 cases of fibrous dysplasia.
Five cases of PES were retrieved from pathology files. Clinical, pathologic and immunohistochemical features of the tumors were reviewed.
The clinical, radiological and pathological features of 9 cases of LGFMS were reviewed.
The clinical, radiologic and pathologic features, as well as treatment and follow-up data, of 13 solitary plasmacytoma of spine cases were retrieved and analyzed. Immunohistochemical study using EnVision method for LCA, CD19, CD20, CD79a, CD3, CD7, PC, MUM1, CD138, IgG, IgM, kappa, lambda and Ki-67 was carried out.
The clinicopathologic features of 13 cases of MGCT were retrospectively reviewed.
Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of ER, HER2, CK5/6, EGFR on tissue microarray with 1311 invasive breast cancers. Based on the results, these cases were categorized into luminal A, luminal B, basal-like, HER2-overexpressing and null subtypes. Clinicopathological features and survival rates were compared between these groups.
The clinicopathologic features of 5 cases of small cell variant of PTCL, NOS were retrospectively reviewed, with immunohistochemical study, T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement analysis and evaluation for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) status.
The histologic features of 52 cases of CLL/SLL with lymph node and/or bone marrow biopsies performed were retrospectively reviewed. Immunohistochemical study using EliVision for ZAP-70 protein was adopted.
Clinical data, electrocardiograms, echocardiography images and pathologic changes were studied in five cases of non-compaction of ventricular myocardium.
Presence of HR-HPV DNA was examined in 45 patients with ASC-H using hybrid capture II (HC-II) test. Colposcopic examination and biopsy were taken all results were evaluated.
The 2 polymorphisms were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP), in 150 asthmatic subjects (asthma group) and 160 healthy controls (healthy control group) of the Han nationality in Shandong province enrolled from December 2003 to June 2007. The total serum IgE levels were determined by ELISA.
Fifty BALB/c mice were randomly divided into 5 groups: a normal control group (A), an asthmatic group (B), a dexamethasone (DXM) group (C, 2 mg/kg), a high-dose matrine group (D, 50 mg/kg) and a low-dose matrine group (E, 25 mg/kg). The mice model of asthma in the B, C, D, and E groups was established by ovalbumin (OVA) intraperitoneal injections and aerosolization. Intra-gastric administration of different medications in C, D, E groups and 0.9% sodium chloride in B group were carried out 1 hour before provocation. 0.9% sodium chloride was used for intraperitoneal injection, aerosolization and intra-gastric administration in group A. The lung tissue slices were stained, and then the grade of inflammation around the wall of bronchi, mucous secretion, and the percentage of goblet-cells were counted. The areas of bronchial smooth muscle and of collagen deposition in airway wall were analyzed. The transcriptions and protein expressions of transforming growth factor-beta(1) (TGF-beta(1)) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) were measured respectively by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry.
The obesity and acute asthma models were established in 40 female SD rats, which were randomly divided into a normal weight control group (group A), a normal weight asthmatic group (group B), a normal weight intervention group (group C), an obese control group (group D) and an obese asthmatic group (group E). The airway resistance and airway responsiveness were calculated by transpulmonary pressure and gas flow rate. The numbers of leukocytes, eosinophils (EOS) and neutrophils (N) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were counted. The concentrations of interleukin-4 (IL-4), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and leptin in serum and BALF were determined by ELISA. The protein and mRNA expression of leptin was measured by Western blot and RT-PCR respectively.
Twenty-four male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 3 groups, a control group (n = 8), an asthmatic group (n = 8) and a MK treated group (n = 8). The rats were sensitized with ovalbumin and AL (OH3), and repeatedly exposed to aerosolized ovalbumin. Airway reactivity of the animals were measured by animal lung function meter. VEGF levels and leukotriene D(4) (LTD(4)) in serum were measured by enzyme linked-immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The pathologic changes of bronchi and the lung tissue were evaluated, and the expression of VEGF and its acceptors was analyzed with immunohistochemistry. The vascular counts and vascular smooth muscle thickness were measured by using image analysis system.
Seventy-one cases of NSCLC and 62 cases of benign pulmonary disease were enrolled in this study from August 2007 to May 2008 in Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Jiangsu. Sixty-five healthy volunteers served as the control. The fluorescence of the PCR products was detected continuously during the amplification by RFQ-PCR. According to the standard curves created by plasmid DNA, the expression level of target genes in clinical samples was determined using software. The results were presented as the ratios of target genes to beta(2)-microglobulin (beta(2)-M) mRNA, and compared with those obtained by conventional cytological method.
Recombinant AAV expressing H1-promoter-induced small-interference- RNA (siRNA) targeting ANG (AAV-shANG) was constructed, and then transfected into A549 cells. A549 cells and cells transfected with AAV-Null were used as the control groups. The effects of the reduced expression of ANG by RNAi from AAV-shANG on the growth, formation, reproduction, apoptosis, and microvessel-density of the carcinoma were observed.
A total of 5500 subjects were derived from a random and cluster sampling of the population in 5 districts of Fuzhou city. They were asked to answer the questions from a questionnaire at home. According to the degree of snoring, 315 subjects with a snoring score &gt; or = 3 degree and 100 subjects with a snoring score = 2 degree were selected at random to undergo polysomnography for a whole night. The prevalence of the disease was estimated and the risk factors for OSAHS were analyzed.
Seventy-eight SD rats were randomly divided into deep vein thrombosis (DVT) group (n = 18), deep vein thrombosis-pulmonary thromboembolism (DVT-PTE) group (n = 54) and control group (n = 6). Rats in DVT and DVT-PTE groups were undergoing local blocking of left femoral artery with micro vessel clip to cause DVT. One, 4, and 7 days later 6 rats from DVT group were killed with their femoral veins observed by light and electron microscopy. Rats in DVT-PTE group underwent injection of the thrombi from left femoral vein solution in normal saline into the right femoral vein 1, 4, and 7 days after DVT formation to establish model of DVT-PTE. The 6 rats of each subgroup [D(n (1, 4, 7))P(n (1, 4, 7)) subgroups] were killed 1, 4, and 7 days after DVT-PTE formation respectively with their lungs observed by light and electron microscopy.
Data of 20 245 patients with COPD were collected from the cross-sectional survey of COPD, which was conducted between 2002 and 2004 in urban and rural areas of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Liaoning, Tianjin, Chongqing and Shanxi for residents aged over 40 years old. The recruited populations were interviewed with questionnaire and tested for spirometry. The quality of life was assessed with 12-item short-form health survey questionnaire (SF-12). Those with less than 70% of post-bronchodilator FEV(1)/FVC were identified as having COPD. The differences between groups in SF-12 scores converted by rank were compared using general linear model. Stepwise multiple linear regressions were conducted to study the main determinants of QOL.
COPD patients (n = 723) were interviewed face-to-face in outpatient departments in 6 large cities in China. The questionnaire included social and demographic information, current health status, quality of life (SGRQ), and medical expenditure on outpatient visit, hospitalization, medicine purchasing in medicine stores in the last 12 months, and other expenditures related with COPD were also collected. All the data were analyzed using descriptive method.
A retrospective cohort study was performed. The patients who died in hospital between January in 2003 and December in 2007 were enrolled. Statistical analysis was performed using the SPSS 13.0.
We retrospectively analyzed the clinical, laboratory, pathological and radiological data of 83 cases of pleural tuberculoma diagnosed by pathology and(or) bacteriology in Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital Affiliated to Tongji University.
A 1:1 matched case-control study was carried out. One hundred and six patients [age (49 +/- 19) years, 73 men and 33 women] fulfilling the criteria of ADIH during the 3 month follow-up after the initiation of anti-tuberculous therapy were included, while 106 cases [age (49 +/- 19) years, 73 men and 33 women] without any hepatic injury served as the controls. The genotypes of GST M1 and GST T1 genetic polymorphisms were detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in patients who received anti-tuberculosis therapy. Using SPSS 11.5 for windows software, univariate and multivariate conditional logistic analyses were conducted for studying the relationship between the polymorphisms and ADIH.
The survey investigated a total of 45 community health service centers in Hangzhou, and 2 - 4 western medicine physicians were randomly selected from each centre. A questionnaire was completed by totally 114 doctors under investigation.
Forty cases of pneumothorax from 5 teaching hospitals in Fujian province were included for this study. TBD was performed in all the 40 cases for whom chest tube drainage had lasted for more than 7days but failed to close the pleura fistulae. Bronchi leading to pleura fistulae (the target bronchus) were detected by balloon-catheter (Olympus B7-2C) through bronchoscope. After the target bronchus was located, SBO procedures were performed. Autologous blood (20 ml to 30 ml) was injected into the target bronchus and followed by thrombin solution (1000 U) through balloon-catheter. In 10 cases, oxygenation and pulse rate were recorded by pulse-oximeter (Healthdyne 920M) during TBD and SBO. Another 10 cases undergoing bronchoscope without performing TBD and SBO served as the controls. Thorax CT, white blood cell count, neutrophil count and body temperature were measured after SBO.
Forty four male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomized into a control group and an acute lung injury (ALI) group, with 22 rats in each group. The ALI model was established by oleic acid. The ATII cells were acutely isolated and purified, and the ATII cellular ultrastructure was observed by transmission electron microscope. In each group, the mRNA expression of 3 epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunits in acute isolated ATII cells from 8 rats were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), while the extravascular lung water (EVLW) content was quantified in 7 rats by gravimetric measurement, and the lung histopathological changes were studies in 7 rats.
Thirty-six Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into the following groups: (1) Rats in the saline control group (n = 6) received normal saline inhalation; (2) Rats in the rosiglitazone control group (n = 6) received inhaled saline and oral rosiglitazone 8 mg/kg simultaneously; (3) Rats in the acrolein group (n = 6) received inhaled acronine 3.0 mg/L, 6 h/day, for 12 days; (4) Rats in the rosiglitazone intervention group (n = 18) received inhaled acrolein and oral rosiglitazone 2 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg, 8 mg/kg, respectively, as the low dose, the moderate dose and the high dose intervention groups (n = 6 each). The lung tissue sections were stained with HE for histopathological examination. The changes of airway mucus were examined with AB-PAS. Expressions of MUC5AC and PPAR-gamma protein in the bronchial epithelium were detected by immunohistochemistry. The expression of mRNA was measured with real time RT-PCR. The data were analyzed with SPSS 10.0 software. Variables were compared with One-Way ANOVA and q test. The correlations between variables were analyzed using Pearson's correlation coefficient.
Lung tissue perfusion method was used to obtain the primary RPMCs, and then the cells were transiently transfected with ET-1 plasmids or empty vectors via Lipofectamine. Flow cytometry was used to determine the distributions of the cell cycle and cell size of RPMCs. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting were used to determine the level of alpha-smooth muscle actin. The ratio of the protein/DNA of the transfected RPMCs was also calculated. Western blotting was used to examine the levels of phosphorylations of protein kinase B/Akt, mTOR, and ERK1/2.
Flow cytometry was used to detect the number of DC in peripheral blood of 81 patients with OSCC, and ELISA applied to test serum VEGF concentration the OSCC patients, and immunohistochemistry used to observe the expression of VEGF in primary foci of 57 patients with OSCC. DC from CD-14 peripheral blood mononuclear cells were cultured with VEGF(165) in vitro to investigate the cytokine's effect on DC.
Tca8113 cells were treated with different concentrations of celecoxib and bleomycin for 24, 48, 72 h. Methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium assay was used to calculate cell growth inhibition rate and Jin Zheng Jun's method was used to evaluate the interaction of celecoxib and bleomycin on Tca8113 cells. Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the effects of combined use of celecoxib and bleomycin on cell cycle progress and apoptosis.
Twenty-one cases of oral squamous cell carcinoma with metastatic lymph nodes were examined by WB-DWI, of which 19 were scanned with routine MRI, 9 cases examined by positron-emission tomography (PET). All cases were confirmed by pathology. MRI scan covered whole body and built whole body diffusion image after reconstruction with GE HDe 1.5T MRI scanner.
One hundred and seventeen cases with severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca treated by microvascular transfer of autogenous submandibular gland transfer from August of 1999 to November of 2007 were reviewed. The cases were divided into three groups according to their different donor veins, with group A using facial veins, group B using concomitant venae of facial artery, and group C using a vein near the duct. Group A and B were compared in terms of venous thrombosis rate and failure rate related to venous thrombosis.
Serum CRP levels, serum lipids [low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG)] and clinical periodontal parameters [clinical attachment loss (CAL), probing depth (PD), and bleeding on probing (BOP)] were measured and analyzed in coexistent moderate to severe periodontitis and CHD patients (n = 47), CHD patients (n = 28), moderate to severe periodontitis patients (n = 40), and healthy subjects (n = 40).
A 3D numerical model of the all-ceramic crown of the right mandibular first molar was generated from scanned CT images. Finite element analysis (FEA) was used to evaluate the stress distribution in the all-ceramic crown when it was subjected to 5 load conditions.
Sixteen human teeth with sclerotic dentin were randomly assigned to 4 groups, and conditioned with acid etching (Group A), laser irradiation (Group B), laser irradiation after acid etching (Group C), or acid etching after laser irradiation (Group D) respectively. The characters of surface ultrastructure were observed using scanning electron microscope (SEM).
rAAV-hVEGF(121) was constructed, identified and then implanted to the left back ear of each mouse (1.0 x 10(11)VG in 50 microl per mouse and 10 nude mice received the injection), the rights served as controls with an injection of the same volume of phosphate buffered solution (PBS). The skin color and swelling of left back ear were observed every other day. Histological examination was carried out after mice were sacrificed 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 weeks after injection.
The facial surfaces of 20 human maxillary incisors were prepared to expose fresh enamel and randomly divided into four groups, in each group 5 teeth were bonded with one adhesives: group A (Clearfil Protect Bond, self-etching two steps), group B (Adper( Prompt, self-etching one step), group C (SwissTEC SL Bond, total-etching two steps), group D (Single Bond, total-etching two steps). Shear bond strengths were determined using an universal testing machine after being stored in distilled water for 24 h at 37 degrees C.
Two-step immunohistochemical method was employed to detect the expression of survivin, Bcl-2 and p53 in 60 rat tongue carcinogenesis specimens induced by 4-nitro-quinoline 1-oxide (4NQO).
Twenty patients with implant supported full dentures or traditional full dentures were recruited in this study. Functional MRI (fMRI) scan covering the whole brain was carried out in these patients in clenching. The fMRI data were analyzed with SPM 99 software.
The eukaryotic expression vector pEGFP-h4-1-BBL was transfected into human oral carcinoma cell line Tca8113 by Lipofectamine 2000. The transfected cells were then selected in medium containing G-418, cloned by limited dilution and named as Tca8113-4-1-BBL. Human 4-1-BBL mRNA and protein expression of transfected cells was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blotting respectively. The tumor cell vaccines (TCV) were obtained by treatment with mitomycin (MMC). Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were prepared from lymphoprep, and then stimulated with anti-CD-3 mAb and incubated with non-transfected or transfected TCV-Tca8113 cells, respectively. The proliferation of T cells was evaluated by trypan blue exclusion; the CCK-8 was used to detect the cytotoxic effect of T lymphocytes. Meanwhile, the secretion of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin (IL)-2 in culture supernatant was detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
The expression of Ezrin was detected by immunohistochemistry in normal salivary gland tissue (n=15), pleomorphic adenoma (n=40) and salivary gland adenoid cystic carcinoma (n=43). The Ezrin Stealth RNAi Duplex, containing Stealth RNAi Negative Control Duplex were constructed and transfected into ACC-M cells by Lipofectamine 2000. The expression levels of Ezrin were detected by RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. The cell cycle and apoptosis rate were analyzed by flow cytometry (FCM). The cell proliferation was detected by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) and cell invasion by Transwell test.
A random sample of 12-year-old adolescence of Beijing (n=844) was examined for dental erosion and required to fill a questionnaire of acidic drink intake. The grade criteria suitable for the survey of the dental erosion was used in the study.
Two-dimension difference in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) coupled with matrix-assisted laser adsorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis was used to identify regulating proteins during hPDLC osteogenic differentiation.
A cross-sectional study design was used and panoramic radiographs of 390 patients (645 sides developed IMTM) were included in the present study. The relationship between the IMTM and the mandibular canal on panoramic radiographs was defined in three types: 'untouched', 'touching in point', and 'superimposition or line touching'. The IMTM superimposing and line touching with mandibular canals on panoramic radiographs were examined by CBCT.
After treated with simvastatin, the expression of immune-related genes of mouse osteoblast was examined with gene chip (BiostarM-140s).
Genomic DNA was extracted from paraffin-imbedded tissues and peripheral blood samples of 10 cases of cherubism (6 familial cherubism and 4 sporadic cherubism). SH-3BP-2 mutations were detected by PCR-direct sequencing. The nature of multinucleated giant cells in lesions was detected by enzyme histochemical staining and immunohistochemical staining using paraffin-imbedded tissues sections. The SH-3BP-2 protein was detected by immunohistochemical staining.
Twenty-six pairs of maxillary edentulous models copied from the fitting surfaces of new and old upper complete dentures were selected for this study. The 3-D data were collected with a laser scanning system. The data were matched using Geomagic Studio 8 and Rapidform2006 software and then the fitting surfaces of new complete dentures were analyzed in comparison with old ones.
Sixteen specimens were randomly assigned to test group and control group (n=8). The control group received no surface treated. Magnetron sputtered ZrN film was deposited on the surface of specimens in the test group. Then the sixteen titanium-porcelain specimens were prepared in a rectangular shape and went through three-point bending test on a universal test machine. The bond strength of Ti/porcelain was recorded. The phase composition of the specimens was analyzed using X-ray diffraction (XRD). The interface at titanium and porcelain and the titanium surface after debonding were observed with a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and analyzed using energy depressive spectrum (EDS).
The minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimal bactericidal concentration (MBC) of the two different antibacterial agents against Streptococcus mutans were investigated using the broth dilution test. Then the antibacterial activities of the self-cured composite resin specimens with different incorporating concentrations of the two antibacterial agents were evaluated using direct contact test. And the antibacterial activities of the resin specimens were examined again after 3 months of accelerating aging.
Fifty-four curved root canals in vitro were selected and divided into three groups according to the curved degree (alpha), group A: 0 degrees &lt; or = alpha &lt; 25 degrees , group B: 25 degrees &lt; or = alpha &lt; 40 degrees , group C: 40 degrees &lt; or = alpha &lt; 55 degrees . Endodontic Cube was assembled, and each sample was sectioned perpendicular to the axis of the tooth into four sections with Isomer-Buhler in low speed. Then the root canals were prepared with hand-used ProTaper. Before and after shaping, photograph of all the sections were taken under a stereomicroscope. Statistical analyses were performed.
A total of 108 patients (2841 teeth) with AgP, 41 patients (1135 teeth) with chronic periodontitis (CP) and 30 periodontal healthy subjects (840 teeth) were included in the study. The abnormality of roots was evaluated on a full set of periapical radiographs. A reference parameter of "root width" in the middle of root was introduced in this study for classifying various types of root abnormality. The root abnormality was categorized into five types: cone-root (incisor, premolar), slender-root, curved-root, maladjusted proportion of crown and root, and synergetic root.
HGF were isolated by both tissue explant cultivation technique and enzyme digestion method. The culture media with 5, 50, 100 mg/L AOPP-HAS were added into each experimental group, but the culture media in the control group didn't contain AOPP-HAS. MTT colorimetric assay and ELISA were used to measure the changes of HGF proliferation and the levels of MMP-1 protein from HGF at different time periods, respectively. Seventy-two hours after co-culture with 50 mg/L AOPP-HSA, cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry with Annexin V/PI staining.
The gingival fibroblasts transfected with hTGF-beta1 gene was compounded to the cuttlebone-transformed nanometer hydroxyapatite (CBHA) material from the cuttlefish in vitro, the degree II furcation defects on the premolars of dogs were produced surgically, and the compound was to implanted into the defect (transfected group), and compared with the compound of periodontal ligament cells (PDLC) with nanometer HA material and the compound of untransfected GF with HA. The results were examined histologically 8 weeks after operation.
Recombined plasmid pGEX-4T-1-AMG was transformed to Escherichia coli BL21. After expression, AMG was purified with glutathione S-transferase fusion protein purification system (GSTrapFF) column.
An animal model of oral squamous cell carcinoma was established and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 99mTc-HL91 used to detect the hypoxia extent of the oral squamous cell carcinoma. The expression of hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) was examined by immunohistochemical staining in 42 cases of formalin-fixed paraffin-embed squamous cell carcinoma.
Twenty-three patients with OSCC were investigated for the expression of CK-18-mRNA by semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Correlations between clinical stages, pathological differentiation, lymphatic metastasis and the expression of CK-18-mRNA were evaluated. CK-18-mRNA expression of peripheral blood from the 23 patients and 23 healthy people were also examined. During follow-up after operation, the peripheral blood was collected again for the expression of CK-19-mRNA.
Tongue movement during swallowing in 20 skeletal Class III adult patients (11 females, 9 males, mean age 20.5 years) and 11 healthy adults (8 females, 3 males, mean age 23.5 years) was examined with M-mode ultrasonography combined with cushion scanning technique. The results were compared.
One growing patient with mandibular retrusion was selected. After leveling and aligning with MBT (Mclaughlin Bennett Treriri) straight-wire appliance to achieve the request of forsus with the spiral CT, a three-dimensional finite element model was constructed and the stress distribution in mandible after advancing at 1 second, 15 seconds and 300 seconds was analyzed.
(NH(4))(2)HPO(4) and Ca(NO3)2 were used to form nano-HA, which was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (FTIR) and X-ray diffractometer (XRD) respectively. Twenty-four dentin slabs were obtained from 8 healthy third molars and randomly divided into 3 groups, which were control group, casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP-ACP) group, and nano-HA group. After the CPP-ACP and nano-HA were topically applied to the slabs of two study groups twice a day for 7 days, the surface of slab dentin was observed using SEM.
Real-time reverse transcription PCR paralleled with vitro-established cRNA standard curves was applied to measure the expression of Nav1.8, Nav1.9 at 30 min, 2 h, 1 d, 3 d and 6 d respectively after extraction of rat right mandibular molars. The right mandibular molars were used as control.
Two hundred and seventeen paraffin-embedded MALT lymphoma specimens from 11 major sites were studied with interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to detect t (11; 18) (q21; q21)/API2-MALT1, t (1; 14) (p22; q32)/IGH-BCL10, (14; 18) (q32; q21)/IGH-MALT1 and BCL6 gene involved chromosome translocations.
62 patients with primary HL in stages II - IV treated in our department from October 2005 to October 2006 were divided into group A and B at random with 31 patients in each group. The patients in group A received ABVD chemotherapy scheme executed at day 1 and day 8 for 6 - 8 cycles. The patients in group B received ABVD chemotherapy scheme executed at day 1 and day 15 for 6 - 8 cycles. The patients of the groups received radiotherapy by the same doctor after chemotherapy according to the patients condition and the radiotherapy regimens were not affected by the grouping.
The characteristics of BPDC hematodermic neoplasm were discussed with a report of two new cases and review the literatures.
The data of 15 patients with WM in our hospital from November 1995 to October 2007 were retrospectively analyzed.
A cross-sectional survey was conducted among the inpatients registered in ten university hospitals of Guangdong, China during the week before the Diabetes Day in 2004. The fasting blood glucose (FBG), lipid profiles, BMI, waist to hip ratio (WHR) and concomitant disorders of the first screen during the hospitalization period were recorded. Those who had FBG level from 5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L and not been previously diagnosed diabetes (PDM) underwent oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).
Patients with IHVF collected in a single cardiac center were classified into a successful group and a failure group. Data relevant to the predicting factors of the two groups were compared.
Immunohistochemical techniques were used to detect the subunit of AP-1 (c-Jun), MMP-2 and MMP-9 in human AMI and normal heart tissue and the expressions of c-Jun and MMPs were measured with computer image analysis system.
This study was divided into two parts. The first part consists of 133 GERD patients with typical symptoms, including 75 erosive esophagitis (EE) and 58 non-erosive reflux disease (NERD); the second part consists of 25 healthy volunteers as control; ambulatory 24-hr esophageal pH monitoring, endoscopy and biopsies which were taken in lower esophagus were performed in all individuals. NERD patients with negative ambulatory 24-hr esophageal pH monitoring were undertaken PPI test. We selected 43 individuals randomly (4 control, 11 NERD and 28 EE) to measure the intercellular space diameter with LM and transmission electronic microscopy (TEM) simultaneously. All the samples were observed at immersion objective, taken pictures and make the scale at the same time; all the pictures were measured by the computer-assisted morphometry and in the samples for one case should be measured 100 points and then calculate the mean intercellular space diameter, while the TEM has the same procedures.
With ABCD2 Score, we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 198 TIA patients, which met the inclusion criteria of our study. They were divided into a low risk group (ABCD2 &lt; or = 3) and a moderate-high risk group (ABCD2 &gt; or = 4) and the incidence, types and risk factors of AT within 7 days after TIA were evaluated and compared respectively with chi(2) test between the two groups. Statistic significance was considered as P &lt; 0.05.
From November 2006 to February 2008, a total of 127 patients with CAP in outpatient were randomly assigned into two groups: PCT group (n = 63) and control group (n = 64). PCT levels of all patients were measured after study admission. On the base of similarly normal treatment, the control group received antibiotics according to the attending physicians and the PCT group were treated with antibiotics according to serum PCT levels: antibiotic treatment was applied with PCT level &gt; or = 0.25 microg/L and was discouraged with PCT level &lt; 0.25 microg/L. Clinical efficacy, rate of antibiotics use, duration courses and costs of antibiotics were observed.
Determination of the minimal inhibitory concentration (MICs) of daptomycin with microbrothdilution method and the MICs of other 9 antimicrobial agents with agar dilution method against 499 strains of blood-isolated gram positive cocci was carried out. The data was analyzed with WHONET 5.4 software.
Study was conducted between February 2007 and July 2008. Included patients on admission ICU who suffer from suspected IPA. GM test and culture were collected 2 weekly. Clinical feature, mycological evidence and optical density index (ODI) were noted. Clinically invasive fungal infection (IFI) were defined proven, probable and possible. The patients were classified into neutropenia, non-neutropenia and treated with immunosuppressive agents, non-neutropenia and non-immunosuppressive agents. To compared of the sensitivity and specificity of GM in different patients.
We performed immunohistochemical staining in 3 confirmed MELAS patients' paraffin-imbued brain biopsy specimens.
Cerebral cortex tissue of temporal layer of 8 cases of late-onset Alzheimer disease and 5 cases of age-matched autopsied controls with normal brain was chosen for this study. Cerebral proteins were run through immobilized pH gradient (IPG) isoelectric focusing electrophoresis as the first dimension and then vertical SDS-PAGE electrophoresis as the second dimension. Differential proteins were identified with visionworks LS and then analyzed with matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). Finally, the protein was identified by searching in the data bank.
This is a prospective and open clinical trial patients with ischemic stroke/TIA within 6 months were enrolled and the dosages of atorvastatin were calculated based on risk stratification according to "Chinese Consensus for Prevention of Ischemic Stroke/TIA with Statin" (Chinese Consensus). A dose of 10 mg of atorvastatin daily to target LDL-C goal was taken as the standard dosage targeting goal (SDTG). Patients taking this dosage of atorvastatin constituted a SDTG group. Those who needed a daily dose of 20 mg or more of atorvastatin were randomized into an intensive dosage targeting goal (IDTG) group (atorvastatin 20 - 80 mg/d) and a standard dosage non-targeting goal (SDNTG) group (atorvastatin 10 mg/d without targeting goal). All patients took atorvastatin for 12 weeks. The primary outcome was the rate of targeting goal for LDL-C lowering at 2, 4 and 12 weeks, respectively and the secondary outcome was the occurence of recurrent stroke and other vascular events within 12 weeks. The main safety endpoint was serial adverse events including symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage.
We detected the number of CAG repeats in the androgen receptor genes in 30 patients with KD. The correlation of CAGs repeat size with age of onset was analyzed. At the same time, the Appel scale that could represent the degree of motor functional impairment was scored in every patient. The correlation of Appel scale with CAGs repeat size and the course of disease were analyzed.
141 patients suspected of coronary artery disease were included. They underwent multi-slice row computed tomography, pulse wave velocity (PWV), UCG and blood biochemistry within a period of 3 months. The subjects were divided into three groups according to CAC score: A (CACS = 0 - 10), B (CACS = 11 - 400), C (CACS &gt; 400).
A retrospective study enrolled 33 Crohn's disease and 34 intestinal tuberculosis inpatients in West China Hospital of Sichuan University from 1996 to 2007. The clinical characteristics and key points of differential diagnosis were analyzed. All the pathological sections were studied again.
Excisional intestinal specimens were collected and immunohistochemical examination was carried out. The human umbilical vein endothelial cells were cultured in vitro to exponential phase of growth, divided into six groups and synchronized for 24 hours. They were then stimulated with thalidomide (40 - 100 microg/ml) for 72 hours. MTT assay was used to assess cellular proliferation. ELISA, real-time quantitative PCR and western blot were applied to detect the expression of VEGF/HIF-1alpha of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC).
Moderate and severe asthmatic patients were prescribed inhaled corticosteroids combined with long-acting beta(2) agonists for a month. The symptom scores and percentage of predicted value of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1)) (FEV(1)%pred) were measured while the concentrations of H(2)O(2), NO(3)(-)/NO(2)(-), and cysteinyl-leukotriene E(4) (LTE(4)) in induced sputum and EBC were detected before and after therapy.
This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, parallel-arm study compared the efficacy and tolerability of nateglinide (120 mg, 3/d, n = 119) and those of acarbose (100 mg, 3/d, n = 118) during a 12-week treatment in T2DM patients uncontrolled by diet with glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 6.5% - 11.0%.
We conducted a follow-up study in 3 communities with different iodine status. Of the 3403 euthyroid subjects at baseline screened in 1999, 80.1% (n = 2727) was visited and sampled in 2004 for measuring TSH, thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPOAb) and thyroglobulin antibody (TgAb).
57 patients suspected of HLH from June 2005 to May 2008 and 25 healthy subjects were enrolled in the study. The patients suspected of HLH were divided into three groups i.e. (1) a group with diagnosis confirmed at first visit; (2) a group with diagnosis confirmed at subsequent visit and (3) a group with diagnosis unconfirmed according to HLH-2004 diagnostic criteria. Healthy subjects were enrolled as control. NK cell activity was determined with a released LDH assay. The percentage of glycosylated ferritin was determined with phytohemagglutinin adsorption assay. sCD(25) was examined with ELISA double antibody sandwich assay. We compared the coincidence of each diagnostic index before and after diagnosis.
The data of 105 de novo AML (non M(3)) patients hospitalized between January 1st 1999 and February 1st 2008 were retrospectively reviewed. Results were analyzed with SPSS15.0 software.
It was an experimental study Establishment of oxygen-induced retinal neovascularization in mice. Thirty-two 7-day-old C57BL/6J mice were divided into oxygen-induced retinopathy group and control group without restriction of gender. In oxygen-induced retinopathy group, 16 mice were exposed to 75% +/- 2% oxygen for 5 days and then to room air; In control group, 16 mice were raised in room air. Observation of the retinal neovascularization. On the postnatal day 19, The mice's vena caudalis were perfused with 2% Evens blue solution. Eyeballs were enucleated and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for half an hour. Then the retina was separated and flat-mounted on the slide. The morphologic changes of retinal vessel were observed and captured under fluorescence microscope. Histological observation and vascular endothelial cells counting. The eyeballs were enucleated and then fixed. After paraffin imbedding, 4 microm serial slices, hematoxylin-eosin staining, select one section every 60 microm to count the endothelial cell nucleus that break through the inner limiting membrane. Expression of mTERT mRNA were confirmed by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). In the each group, the retina were all carefully dissected on the postnatal day 19. The total RNA was isolated and cDNA was synthesized before RT-PCR was performed. The PCR products were separated by 2% agarose gel electrophoresis and photographed. Expression of mTERT mRNA were confirmed by Real-time PCR The total RNA was isolated and cDNA was synthesized (The same procedure as RT-PCR). Fluorescent real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction system (total 20 microl) was made. The Fluorescent signals were detected at 60 degrees C. The expression of mTERT were confirmed by immunohistochemistry. At P19, 4 microm cross sections were made in the hyperoxia-exposed and normal retinas. Sections were incubated with rabbit anti-Human/Mouse/Rat Telomerase 60 minutes at 37 degrees C. Anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G, depending on the primary antibody, was used as a secondary antibody for 30 min. Peroxidase activity was detected with the substrate diaminobenzidine. Permanent slides were covered with a 1.5 mm thick cover slip, examined using a light microscope and photographed.
It was a case-control study. Data of 50 eyes of 50 PDR patients who underwent vitrectomy were retrospectively analyzed. The vitreous fluid samples were obtained during surgery. The VEGF level in vitreous fluid was determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor of vitreous in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy was analyzed. The mean follow-up was 9 months with a range from 6 to 26 months. The VEGF levels in vitreous fluid were compared between PDR patients and normal control, and silicone oil tamponade group and without silicone oil tamponade group by t-test. The changes of VEGF levels in vitreous fluid in eyes with regression, stabilization, and progression were analyzed by analysis of variance. The effects of VEGF levels in vitreous fluid on PDR were analyzed by analysis of variance.
It was an experimental study. The RPE cells were dissociated from rabbit eyes and cultured. The RPE cells in the 4(th) passage were divided into 2 groups: curcumin group and control group (10% FBS-EMDM contains 0.05% dimethyl sulfoxide). The curcumin group contained 3 mass concentration: 10 mg/L, 15 mg/L and 20 mg/L. The MTT assay was used to evaluate the inhibition effect of RPE cells cultured with curcumin after 24 h, 48 h, 72 h and 96 h respectively. The IC(50) value in 24 h, 48 h, 72 h and 96 h were gotten by Linear Regression. Flow cytometry was performed to detect the change of DNA content (apoptosis rate), DeltaPsim and Ca(2+) of RPE cells cultured with curcumin (15 mg/L) after 8 h, 24 h, 48 h and 72 h respectively.
It was a series case study. This study included 17 eyes with intraocular foreign body from June 2007 to April 2008. Intraocular foreign bodies in these eyes were hardly removed, and all of the eyes had complicated and severe retinal injuries. The intraocular foreign bodies were taken out followed intravitreal injection of silicon oil. The retinal protective effects of silicon oil were studied.
Twenty normal subjects between 24 and 38 years of age, mean age was 28.25 +/- 4.07 (SD). Imaging of the ocular motor nerves at the brainstem was performed in 0.8 mm thickness image planes using 3D-FIESTA sequence; nerves in the cavernous sinus was imaged with a head coil, the FSE/T(1)WI was obtained in coronal planes; nerves to extraocular muscles (EOMs) in the orbits were imaged with FSE/T(1)WI oblique-coronal planes using surface coils, and within 2.0 mm thick planes. A human orbit was celloidin embedding and serially sectioned at 0.1 mm of thickness for HE stain, which would be used to distinguish motor nerves to the EOMs.
It was a retrospective series case study. The clinical data of eight definite diagnosed TASS cases were retrospectively analyzed.
Fundus examination was performed in 49 patients (66 eyes) with choroidal metastasis. Fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) was performed in 44 cases, combined with indocyanine green angiography (ICGA) examination in 12 cases. B-scan ultrasound examination was performed in 8 cases. Transpupillary thermotherapy (TTT) was performed in 24 eyes, combined with photo-dynamic therapy in one eye. Plaque radio-therapy was used in one eye. The parameters of treatment for TTT were 1.2 - 3 mm spot size, 450 - 1000 mV, 60 s; 2 sessions of TTT in 2 eyes and 3 sessions in 3 eyes.
Genomic DNA was extracted from the peripheral blood samples of members of the pedigree. Gene scan was performed using approximately 400 microsatellite markers spaced at about 10 cM intervals (ABI). Linkage analysis was carried out using a Linkage software package. Additional microsatellite markers for the positive region were selected for precise targeting, and haplotype data were processed using Cyrillic software to define the region of the disease gene. Mutation detection was carried out by sequencing candidate genes.
Prospective, randomized, double-masked study that 260 eyes of patients who underwent cataract extraction and IOL implantation was performed. Patients were randomly divided into 2 groups: AcrySof IQ or AcrySof Natural. One week, one and three month postoperative evaluations included contrast sensitivity and wavefront analysis. The independent-samples T test was used. P &lt; 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
It was a case control study. For 57 (57 affected eyes and 57 contralateral eyes) unilateral eye affected patients and 25 (50 eyes) normal health adults, we examined ophthalmic arteries (OA), posterior ciliary arteries (PCA) and short posterior ciliary arteries (SPCA) by color Doppler flow Imaging (CDFI), and recorded the peak systolic velocities (PSV), end diastolic velocities (EDV) and resistance indexes (RI) of them. We compared each hemodynamic parameter of the normal eyes with it of the affected eyes and contralateral eyes in patients group respectively, and contrasted them between affected eyes and contralateral eyes of the patients. Fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) and indocyanine green angiography (ICGA) were performed simultaneously on 57 patients with Heidelberg retina angiography, and the images were analyzed in contrast. We used SPSS 12.0 statistics software was used in the study. To the PSV, EDV and RI of the OA, PCA and SPCA in affected eyes and contralateral eyes of the patients, we used paired t-test for the same sample to compare their hemodynamic parameters; to compare normal health adults' eyes with the affected eyes and the contralateral eyes of patients group respectively, we used two-group t-test. When the P-value was less than 0.05, there was a statistical significance.
Experimental research. A factor design was used to set up the experiment statistically upon two factors: diabetic and normal control as treatment factors; day 30, 45 and 70 as the time factors. Normal and diabetic rats' lenses were incubated with HNE for 2 hours. HNE metabolites in the culture media were studied by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity in normal and diabetic rat lens (30, 45 and 70 d after inducing of cataract) was detected by a spectrophotometer, ALDH protein and HNE-protein were detected by Western Blot. All data were analyzed by the Bonferroni test using SAS 8.0 software.
It was an experimental study. Three p27Kip1-shRNA template DNA sequences containing small hairpin structure were designed and synthesized as experimental groups. Plasmid expressing irrelevant shRNA with a random combination was used as negative shRNA. The products were inserted into the Pgensil-1 plasmid and the recombinant plasmid of Pgenesil-P1, Pgenesil-P2, Pgenesil-P3 and Pgenesil-HK were constructed. The recombinant plasmids were transfected into bCEC cells with liposome and a blank group. The expression of mRNA and protein of p27Kip1 was detected by RT-PCR and Western blot after stable transfection, and the plasmid with the best inhibitory effect was selected. The growth of the experimental group, Pgenesil-HK group and blank group were assessed by MTT. The influence of shRNA-p27Kip1 on bCEC cell cycle was deteceted by flow cytometry (FCM). All statistical analyses were performed using one-way ANOVA.
It was an experimental study. Chronic ocular hypertension (OHT) model was induced in the left eyes of 43 Wistar rats by cauterizing episcleral venous while the right eyes were used as control. The rats were divided into three groups: 13 for immunohistology, 15 for Western blotting, and 15 for RT-PCR by randomly computerized assignment and sacrificed at week 12 after OHT induction. The expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2 in the sclera lamina cribrosa was detected using immunohistology, Western blotting, and RT-PCR technique, respectively. Repeated measures ANOVA of two-factor Studies in SAS statistic software were used to analyze the data.
Retrospective case series study was taken to study the clinical data of the cases with melanocytoma of the optic disc at Peking Union Medical College Hospital from 1978 to 2007. The examination included direct and indirect ophthalmoscopy, fundus photography, fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), fundus indocyanine green angiography (ICGA), optical coherence tomography (OCT) and B-scan. The clinical manifestation and the outcome in follow-up period were analyzed.
Retrospective clinical observational cases. All patients with choroidal metastasis underwent ophthalmologic examination including best corrected visual acuity (VA), slit-lamp examination, binocular indirect funduscopy, color photography, fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), indocyanine-green angiography (ICGA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), A and B scan ultrasound examination, magnetic resonance image (MRI) as well as CT of the thorax, etc.
A retrospective case series study was performed on 75 patients with orbital adenoid cystic carcinoma treated from 1991 to 2006.
It was an experimental study. Seventy-five cases of Rb were studied with immunohistochemical methods using antibodies against P-gp, LRP and MRP. The relationship between their expression and the clinicopathological features of Rb, and the relationship between the expression of these three markers were investigated.
It was an experimental study. Sixty Rb specimens with complete clinical and prognostic data were collected. Periodic acid-Schif staining and immunohistochemical staining of CD34 were conducted to explore if VM exists in those Rb specimens. The expression of HIF-1alpha and VEGF were examined by immunohistochemical staining. The expression of CD34 endothelial antigen was used to label the neo-microvessels. Microvessel density (MVD) in retinoblastoma tissues was calculated.
It was a prospective study.We examined the visual acuity and stereopsis of 152 normal children from 30 to 50 months of age. The stereopsis was examined with Titmus, RPS and TNO.
Case control study. Thirty eyes of 22 patients with cataracts had undergone phacoemulsification and implantation of AIOL. Twenty nine eyes of 22 age- and sex-matched patients with cataracts had the same surgery but foldable acrylic IOL were used as the controls. All patients were assessed for accommodation amplitude, visual acuity and for change of anterior chamber depth (ACD) at 6 and 12 months after surgery. Accommodation amplitude was measured using the pushing-up test. The change of ACD was measured with OCULUS Pentacam analysis system.
It was an agreement study. Ocular aberrations data obtained by using iTrace (Tracey Technologies), OPD SCAN (Nidek) and WASCA (Zeiss) wavefront aberrometers were analyzed. Eighty six eyes of 45 patients were measured three times. The difference between the measurement and the mean of three consecutive measurements were analyzed to verify the reproducibility. The difference in sphere, cylinder, spherical equivalent (SEQ) and high order aberration (HOA) errors obtained from different aberrometers were evaluated.
It was retrospective clinical study. PACG was classified as acute primary angle closure glaucoma (APACG) group and chronic primary angle closure glaucoma (CPACG) group. APACG was then divided into acute attack phase and chronic phase, and CPACG was divided into chronic phase and late phase. IOP, best corrected visual acuity were compared before and after trabeculectomy in different subgroup of PACG. In addition, the incidence of complications of trabeculectomy was assessed. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS 12.0 statistics software. Categorical variables such as best corrected visual acuity were compared using nonparametric test, continuous variables such as age and IOP were compared between the two groups using independent two-sample t-tests. Pre- and postoperative IOP were compared using one-way analysis of variance of repeated measures.
This research was a cross-sectional study. From February to July 2008, 50 eyes of 50 healthy subjects were enrolled in this study. They had no history of ocular trauma, infection or contact lens wear and had no found after routine slit-lamp examinations. In vivo laser scanning confocal microscopic examinations were performed on the superior, inferior, nasal and temporal bulbar conjunctiva and the images were recorded. The morphology of bulbar conjunctiva was analyzed and the density of epithelial cells, dendritic cells and goblet cells were calculated. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to compare the means of epithelial cell densities in different layers and goblet cell densities in different positions. Subsequently the datum between two groups were analyzed by least significant difference (LSD).
Randomized control design was applied. One hundred C57BL/6 and thirty eight BALB/c mice were used as donors and recipients, respectively, to establish a corneal allograft model. These mice were randomly divided into A, B, C and D groups. There were 25 mice in each group. Group A, autograft control; Group B, allograft control (placebo was used in this group); Group C, allograft and treated with intraperitoneal ciclosporin A (CsA, 10 mg * kg(-1) * d(-1)) and Group D, allograft and treated with intraperitoneal J2 (15 mg * kg(-1) * d(-1)). All medications were applied on the day of transplantation and were continuously administrated for 12 days. Graft survival index, paraffin sections with HE staining and immunohistochemical staining of frozen sections were observed in each group 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks after operation. IL-2 and IL-10 expression of cornea was detected by RT-PCR. One-Way ANOVO analysis was used to compare transplant survival time of the corneal allograft of each group.
It was an experimental study. OHT was induced by the coagulation of trabecular meshwork using 532-laser in sixty SD rats. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured by Tonopen-XL, the expression of CD11b in retinal microglia detected by immunohistochemistry, and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) were labeled with Dextran Tetramethyl Rhodamine (DTR) and counted by Image-Pro Plus Version 6.0 image analysis software at 2 weeks, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months, respectively. All the numerical data were statistically analyzed by SPSS 13.0 software.
It was studied by using bibliometrics analysis method. According to the data of CAJCCR in 2002 to 2007 and Chinese Citation Database in 2001 to 2007. The impact factor (IF), non-self-citing impact factor, total cited frequency, cited articles, immediacy index, rate of fund papers, web immediacy download rate, average value of h index were analysed and the non-self-citing rate, h(2)/n, high cited articles were calculated. In addition, the results of cited by cole databases at home and abroad.
Retrospective observational case series. Retrospective analysis of vitrectomy for IMH patients treated between January 2001 and January 2008 was performed. The statistical software SPSS10.0 were used to analyze the data such as surgical technique, closure rate, BCVA, hole size and stage etc. The variables in normal distribution were compared by independent sample t-tests, the qualitative data were compared by R x C table, and the ordered data were compared by nonparametric tests.
This was a retrospective observational case series. Including 52 eyes of 52 selected patients. All patients had undergone vitrectomy without silicon oil tamponade as the first surgery for the treatment of various vitreoretinal diseases. After the failure of the first surgery, scleral buckling combined with intravitreal gas injection were performed for the treatment of retinal detachment in Xijing Hospital between January 2001 and May 2004. The scleral buckling was used in all surgeries and using radial placement of a silicon sponge or circumferential placement of solid silicon combined with an encircling band. During the surgery, all breaks were carefully marked to ensure they were on the crest or anterior slope of the buckle. Air or C(3)F(8) gas was injected intravitreously. The reattachment rate, visual outcome, and postoperative complications were investigated.
A retrospective review of five patients with suspected CHRRPE presented to Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences &amp; Peking Union Medical College, from Nov 2001 to July 2008. The clinical presentations, fundus characteristics, fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), optic coherence tomography (OCT), as well as B ultrasound scan examinations were analyzed.
It was a experimental study. (1) Fifty dry cadaveric adult heads (100 sides) were dissected. The shapes and sizes of ethmoid sinus and sphenoid sinus were observed and measured. (2) The distance between the mid-point of the lateral wall of the sphenoid sinus and the internal carotid artery, the angle between the initial section of the ophthalmic artery and internal carotid artery were observed and measured under both naked eye and microscope. The distance between the medial margin of bilateral optic nerve at the frontal outlet were measured on 15 formalin-fixed wet cadaveric adult heads. The relationships between the optic canal and ethmoid sinus and sphenoid sinus were observed on 6 formalin-fixed cadaveric adult heads by CT scanning; the morphological features and adjacent structures were contrasted and observed on 6 ice-frozen cadaveric head specimens by CT scanning and corresponding applied sectional anatomy.
Forty SD rats were induced diabetes by Streptozotocin (STZ). Four weeks later, these rats were randomized into 4 groups: rats in group A received 5 U hyaluronidase intravitreal injection in right eyes; rats in group B received 0.5 U plasmin intravitreal injection in right eyes; rats in group C received 0.5 U plasmin +5 U hyaluronidase intravitreal injection in right eyes; rats in group D received BSS (balance salt solution) 2 microl intravitreal injection in right eyes. Clinical examination were performed at 1, 3, 7 days after injection. After 1 week, scanning electron microscope (SEM) was performed to judge whether the PVD was induced. ERG and histology were examined to evaluate the toxicity after the intravitreal injection of these two drugs.
In a prospective randomized sample controlled clinical trial, 90 patients (90 eyes) with age-related cataract and corneal astigmatism were randomly divided into 3 groups: (Group A) traditional superior corneal incision phacoemulsification surgery and AcrySof SN60AT IOL implantation, (Group B) corneal topography guiding incision phacoemulsification surgery and AcrySof SN60AT IOL implantation and (Group C) corneal topography guiding incision phacoemulsification surgery and AcrySof SN60WF IOL implantation. Corneal topography tests were performed at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months postoperatively. The Wavefront aberration was measured using a custom built Tscherning wavefront sensor-ALLEGRETTO WAVE Analyze at 90 days postoperatively. Third-, 4th-, 5th-, total and higher-order aberration (HOA) root-mean-square (RMS), spherical aberration and coma aberration were compared at virtual pupil diameters of 6 mm postoperatively. Statistical analyses were performed using the analysis of chi square test, repeated measurement data analysis of variance, one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), and multiple comparisons Students-Newman-Keuls test.
In the nonrandomized retrospective consecutive case series, 8 patients (8 eyes) with bullous keratopathy at Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center between September 2006 and October 2007 underwent DSEK surgery. During the surgical procedure, the Descemet's membrane and abnormal endothelial layer were stripped from the central recipient posterior surface with 7.75 mm diameter, and then a specially designed scraper was used to roughen the peripheral recipient posterior stroma. Other surgical techniques were the same with routine DSEK surgery. The adherence of the donor lenticule to the recipient posterior stroma and postoperative donor lenticule dislocation were monitored in the early stage after surgery. Best spectacle-corrected visual acuity (BSCVA), graft clearance, corneal astigmatism and endothelial cell density (ECD) were observed over a 3-9 months follow-up period.
This study is a retrospective review of 28 patients (28 eyes, 11 men, 17 women) which were diagnosed as orbital varix from March to December in 2007, in the Institute of Orbital Diseases. Patient's age ranged from 11 to 54 years old, mean 32 years old. Right orbit 18 cases, left orbit 10 cases. All patients is under general anesthesia, operative approach included lateral orbitotomy (9 cases), anterior orbitotomy (11 cases), transconjunctival (7 cases) and percutaneous puncture (1 case). During the operation, venous malformations were dilatated and punctured with an 20-gauge catheter needle, then injected into 33% Glubran 2 with several punctures with different orientations of the needle were required to reach the different lobules of the venous pouch.
It was a retrospective case sires. Retrospective analyze the clinical characteristics, imaging features, pathological manifestation and the treatment effect from the clinical materials of 9 cases of patients with benign lymphoepithelial lesion presenting to Tianjin Eye Hospital from Jan 2006 to Dec 2007.
It was a experimental study. The outbred strain F344 and Lewis rats were used as donors and recipients respectively. Sixty Lewis rats were randomly divided into B, C, D and E Group; Group A, F344 rats autograft control; Group B, allograft control (the control groups were given normal sodium only); Group C and D, allograft groups, were treated with 5 mg/L and 10 mg/L mK5 eye drops respectively; Group E, allograft group, was treated with 0.1% dexamethasone eye drops. The eye drops were applied one drop four times per day for two weeks, the occurrence and development of corneal allograft rejection and corneal neovascularization (CNV) was observed every other day by slit-lamp microscope, the grafts were evaluated clinically by means of Holland's scoring system and the area of CNV was calculated. Nine rats per group were killed on the 14th day, and the corneas were taken for histopathological examinations. Analysis of variance was used to analyze the outcomes.
It was an experimental study. One hundred strains of ocular gram-positive bacterial isolates selected from Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, cultivated and identified by the routine, were tested for their susceptibilities to fusidic acid, vancomycin, tobramycin and ofloxacin, with in vitro by the Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion method. Significant differences between groups were evaluated by SPSS 11.5 chi-square test of four-fold table.
Rats (n = 8) were gavaged daily with 100 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) of tenofovir DF or didanosine. Kidneys and livers were examined after 8 weeks of treatment.
We determined the numbers of adults receiving HIV testing and antiretroviral treatment (ART) during 2001-2006 using testing registers linked to patient records from 2 health care facilities believed responsible for virtually all HIV services available to the population. We evaluated annual population testing rates using census population counts; proportions of clients testing seropositive (yield); CD4 counts and World Health Organization stage at diagnosis; and ART initiation rates.
Samples were collected in 2002-2004 from 144 drug-naive patients attending public hospitals and private clinics. Plasma viremia, CD4, and CD8 cell counts were determined for each patient. The Stanford Algorithm was used for resistance genotyping on pol sequences. Subtyping was done by phylogenetic analysis.
Diagnoses data based on Australia's HIV surveillance system are analyzed with a mathematical sexual transmission model to estimate the age-mixing patterns of sexual partnerships amongst men who have sex with men. The degree of assortativity and the relative rate of partner acquisition across different age groups are estimated.
Bovine mandibular anterior tooth roots were used as dentin samples. Each sample was soaked in a demineralizing solution (2 M lactic acid, pH 4.0) for 3 d to obtain demineralized dentin (DD) samples. Another group of samples were prepared without demineralization as a sound dentin (SD) group for comparison. After determining the Knoop hardness number (KHN) of each sample, the dentin surface was ablated with an Er:YAG laser. Tip output and pulse rate were set at 50 mJ and 20 pulses per second (pps), respectively, and the water spray was set at 3.5 mL/min. Ablation width, depth, and volume were measured following irradiation.
This randomized, multicenter, 64-week, open-label study of 363 subjects compared 10-U and 20-U of BoNTA for up to five treatments. The endpoints were the physician ratings of line severity and duration of efficacy, and subject ratings of line improvement and satisfaction. Safety assessments included adverse events, laboratory tests, and vital signs. Tests for neutralizing antibodies were conducted.
This was an action-research study, with data collected through a variety of sources such as matrix sampling, project team meetings, mapping and semi-structured qualitative interviews.
The demographic characteristics, operation indications, types of the pancreaticoduodenectomy, duration of the postoperative hospitalization, morbidity and mortality of the consecutive patients whose pancreaticojejunostomy anastomosis after pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed by modified invagination method at Hacettepe University Medical School Department of General Surgery between February 2005 and December 2007 were evaluated prospectively.
Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreaticography was done on 70 volunteers before and after using ranitidine for half of them and esomeprazole for the other half of the group. The images were evaluated for contrast effect (signal from stomach and duodenum), and image effect (conspicuousness) at various segments of pancreaticobiliary tree.
The records of 57 patients with middle (n=22) and distal (n=35) bile duct cancer who had undergone radical surgery were reviewed (pancreaticoduodenectomy in 46 patients, extrahepatic bile duct resection in 6, and major hemihepatectomy in 5). The clinicopathological prognostic factors affecting survival were examined.
We examined the relationship between USBA level in a urine sample by enzymatic assay and clinical parameters and postoperative complications in 27 patients with hepatobiliary diseases who underwent surgical procedures between 2002 and 2007.
100 patients aged between 80 and 92 years (group 1) and 241 patients aged between 70 and 79 years (group 2), undergoing cholecystectomy for gallbladder disease, are the subject of the study. Types of disease and surgery and p.o. morbidity and mortality have been evaluated.
Fourteen patients with biliary carcinoma (4 patients; gallbladder cancer, 10 patients; biliary tract) who had no prior chemotherapy were enrolled. A triple combination of agents was administered with a 4-week cycle GFP chemotherapy consisting of GEM at 1000 mg/m2 on days 1 and of 5-FU at 250 mg/m2 and CDDP at 3mg/m2 on days 1 to 5.
We investigated retrospectively endoscopic findings and total number of days of vancomycin administration for patients who showed evidence of C. difficile toxin A or PMs at our hospitals. We excluded CDAD cases with inflammatory bowel disease.
Preoperative serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen--CEA, CA 19-9, CA 72-4, thymidine kinase (TK), tissue polypeptide antigen (TPA) and tissue polypeptide specific antigen (TPS) were evaluated in 173 patients operated on for colorectal liver metastases (CLM). Liver resection was performed on 114 patients and radiofrequency ablation on 59 patients.
We cross-sectionally evaluated the effect of multiple clinical factors including enteral nutrition on the health-related quality of life of Crohn's disease patients focusing on patient disease duration using the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire.
21 patients with chronic hepatitis C were divided into two groups randomly and treated with recombinant human interferon-beta-la (IFN-B-1a) or IFN-beta-1a plus ribavirin (RBV) for 24 weeks, then followed up for another 24 weeks. 42 liver biopsies of 21 patients before and after treatment respectively were evaluated on conventional histological assessment. Then we studied 21 patients liver biopsies by immunohistochemical analysis of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and collagen type III.
The activities of enzymes catalysing hydrolysis of alpha-tocopheryl glucoside (1a) and mannoside (1b) as well as p-nitrophenyl beta-glucoside (2a) and mannoside (2b) in cancer and healthy human colon tissues, were determined according to the modified method described by Zwierz et al.
Blood specimens were obtained from the drainage vein of the tumor during operation in 76 patients with colorectal cancer. Serum ROS levels were measured using the derivative-Reactive Oxygen Metabolites (d-ROM) test and serum TP levels were examined by a highly sensitive ELISA method.
Nineteen cases of ulcerative colitis were measured plasma concentration of G-CSF during the first session of GCAP therapy.
From 2001 to 2005, high anterior resection was performed in 78 consecutive patients with advanced sigmoid colon cancer whose anatomoses with stapler were located under their promontories using SFEEA (n=35) or DST (n=43). We reviewed their medical records for operative duration, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative complications and suture line recurrence retrospectively.
The expression of hexokinase II gene was down regulated by RNA interference in colon cancer cell line LoVo, then the IC50 value of 5-fluorouracil to LoVo cells was carried out by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and the protein expression of hexokinase II and thymidylate synthas by Western blot analysis Meanwhile, cell apoptosis and mitochondrial membrane potential were assessed by flow cytometry. Caspase-3 activity was also determined by its substrate color reaction.
From January 2000 to June 2005, a prospective randomized study involving 200 CRC patients for whom curative resection was performed, another 100 healthy persons as a control group was included. Basal CEA using chemilumescence technique and routine follow up were done.
Immunohistochemistry was used for expression of proliferation (MIB-1) and for detection of microvessel density (MVD, expressed by CD34). Clinicopathological findings were compared with outcome with emphasis on IHC.
Immunohistochemical analysis of MVD was performed using monoclonal antibody against CD31. The number and thickness of vessels were investigated for 45 LGD and 25 hyperplastic polyps. In contrast, NBI colonoscopy was able to classify all lesions into either visualization or nonvisualization of MC vessels.
We selected 74 early gastric cancer patients in whom B-I reconstruction was performed under laparotomy after distal gastrectomy. The patients were divided into 2 groups: HDS (34 patients) and HSA (40 patients). Several parameters such as time required for achieving anastomosis, operative blood loss, the rate of anastomotic stricture formation, time to resumption of oral intake, and postoperative complications were examined.
We studied 80 consecutive young male patients with heartburn and acid regurgitation. The symptom characteristics were collected by interviewing with a structured questionnaire. Upper GI endoscopy with biopsy was performed to identify the distal esophagitis.
Of 25 patients with variceal bleeding, 15 were randomized to receive terlipressin for day 1-5 and placebo for day 6-10 (Group A), and 10 to receive terlipressin for day 1-10 (Group B).
Liver cirrhotic patients who were consecutively referred for primary or secondary prevention of esophageal variceal bleeding between February 2003 and April 2005 were included in this study. Group A (n=47) received EVL immediately after needle puncture measurement of VP. Patients who received EVL only were included as controls (Group B, n=47). Arterial blood pressure (ABP), heart rate (HR), arterial oxygenation (SaO2) and morbidity were evaluated.
100 patients with GERD underwent laparoscopic Nissen's fundoplication in El-Mansoura Gastro-enterology center between January, 2002 and March, 2004. Patients were classified according to preoperative symptoms into 3 groups; group 1 (71 cases with severe typical and minimal atypical symptoms), group 2 (18 cases with severe typical and severe atypical symptoms) and group 3 (11 cases with minimal typical and severe atypical symptoms). Patients were reassessed within a mean period of 24 +/- 12 months after surgery.
Portal venous stent placement was done in 4 consecutive patients with anastomotic portal venous stenosis following major abdominal surgery combined with portal reconstruction. Liver dysfunction developed in all patients and consciousness loss in one patient, 1-55 days (mean, 19 days) after surgical intervention. Portal venous blood flow was not recognized by Doppler ultrasonographic studies in all patients. Expandable metallic stents were placed in the portal vein by percutaneous transhepatic approach in 2 patients and by transiliac approach in the other 2 patients.
203 subjects were included in this study. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis was performed for polymorphisms at codon 158 in the COMT gene. Gastritis scores of antral gastric mucosa were assessed according to the updated Sydney system.
The study subjects consisted of 48 patients who had primary surgical treatment for Crohn's disease, 28 through conventional laparotomy and 20 in whom surgery was laparoscopically assisted. The short-term and long-term outcomes, cosmesis, and postoperative QOL were evaluated in both groups.
We examined the frequencies of TPMT and ITPA gene polymorphisms in 812 Korean patients with inflammatory bowel diseases using denaturing high performance liquid chromatography and direct sequencing.
This study comprised of 19 males and 29 females, mean age 54.9 +/- 8.72 years, followed-up in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, between August 2004 and October 2006. HCV-RNA was detected in serum and platelets (pre-treatment, end-of-treatment and 24 weeks after completion of therapy) by reverse transcription-nested polymerase chain reaction. Patients with genotype 1 or 4 were treated with peginterferon-alfa/ribavirin for 48 weeks, and patients with genotype 3 received interferon-alfa/ribavirin for 24 weeks.
Peripheral blood was collected prior to the test food ingestion and was incubated with fluorescein-labeled lentinan. The rates of lentinan-binding CD14+ monocytes were determined by flow cytometry. Patient survival times were followed up for 3 years.
Ninety-four cases of hepatectomy were analyzed retrospectively. All patients were randomized into 3 groups: Pringle maneuver was applied in Group 1 (n=40), hemihepatic inflow control was Group 2 (n=30) and complete hemihepatic vascular occlusion with hanging maneuver was applied in Group 3 (n=24).The clamping period, operation time, bleeding volume, blood transfusion volume, postoperative recovery of liver function and postoperative complications were compared among three groups.
We examined the demographics, surgical records and outcome in 9 patients undergoing LAPH between 2001 and 2007 by comparing results in 15 patients (control group) who did not undergo laparoscopy before 2000.
Patients with decompensated cirrhosis were enrolled in three groups. Group 1: Signs and symptoms of peritonitis plus a polymorphonuclear leukocyte count of ascitic fluid equal or greater than 250/mm3. Group 2: Signs and symptoms of peritonitis, but polymorphonuclear leukocyte count of ascitic fluid less than 250/mm3. Group 3: No signs and symptoms of peritonitis and polymorphonuclear leukocyte count of ascitic fluid less than 250/mm3. Ceftriaxone was started in Groups 1 and 2. Serum level of hsCRP was repeated after the 2nd day of the antibacterial treatment.
Case-control study in a medical-surgical ICU of a referral hospital. Patients admitted to ICU with severe acute liver failure of any etiology were included. Conventional treatment was applied in all cases according to patient's clinical condition. Patients were treated with MARS after the implementation of this therapy in the ICU. Patients without this treatment were the control group.
One hundrend seven patients with chronic Hepatitis C (genotype 1) were treated with pegylated-interferon 2alpha/ribavirin for 48 weeks. Quantitative testing of liver function, including aminopyrine breath test (ABT), galactose elimination capacity (GEC), sorbitol clearance (SCl) and indocyanine green clearance (ICG) was performed before and 12 weeks after initiation of antiviral therapy. QTLF was repeated at the end of the therapy (week 48) and 6 months after therapy.
Among 863 acute hepatitis patients admitted consecutively to the hospital, 320 with serum immunoglobulin M antibody to hepatitis B core antigen were classified as acute hepatitis B. Of these patients, serum samples were collected 3 and 6 months after clinical onset.
Partial hepatic ischemia was maintained for 60 min in a pig. Pigs were allocated to 4 groups (n=5 each): (1) Control group with I-R injury (Vehicle); (2) EPO group with I-R injury, given three injections of EPO at 5000 IU/kg (EPO5000x3); (3) EPO group with I-R injury, given a single injection of EPO at 5000 IU/kg (EPO5000x1); and (4) EPO group with I-R injury, given three injections of EPO at 500 IU/kg (EPO500x3). Liver function tests (AST, ALT, LDH), and TUNEL assay were performed.
Twenty-three patients with LN metastases from HCC underwent RT. A daily dose of 1.8-4 Gy was administered to deliver a total dose of 28-56 Gy, which was a biologic effective dose (BED) of 36-67.2 Gy10 (median 58.5 Gy10) with an alpha/beta ratio of 10. We evaluated predictive factors for local control and survival.
Growth inhibition of hepatic cancer cell lines (HepG2, Hep3B, Alexander, and HuH-7) was examined by MTT assay. On apoptosis induction, flow cytometry analyses were performed after Fas or TNF-alpha ligand stimulation followed by phosphatidylcholine. Expressions of caspase-8, -3 and PARP after phosphatidylcholine stimulation were examined by immunoblotting. TUNEL staining was also performed after phosphatidylcholine stimulation.
The time-course change in blood cell counts was compared between chronic hepatitis C patients with genotype 1b receiving PEG-IFN alpha-2a/ribavirin and PEG-IFN alpha-2b/ribavirin combination therapy. The comparison was made after matching patients from the two groups based on ribavirin apparent clearance (CL/F), a surrogate marker of the steady state blood ribavirin level, in order to eliminate the effect of ribavirin. Fifteen pairs of matched patients were selected.
The results of 56 patients subjected to SPD for bleeding esophageal varices, were retrospectively reviewed. Etiology of portal hypertension was chronic HBV cirrhosis in 80.4% (45/56), alcoholic in 12.5% (7/56) and others 7.1% (4/56). Child-Pugh grading on admission was A: 78.6% (44/56), B: 14.3% (8/56), and C: 7.1% (4/56). Evaluation was made in terms of effectiveness in controlling the acute bleeding, postoperative morbidity and mortality, recurrent bleeding, encephalopathy and 3-year survival rate.
Forty-two surgical specimens resected from patients with a diagnosis of branch-type IPMN were pathologically classified as benign (n=26), which included hyperplasia and adenoma, or malignant (n=16), including moderate dysplasia or adenocarcinoma. It was compared the differences in the sizes of the tumor and main pancreatic duct (MPD) and the presence of mural nodules on CT between the groups.
The association between pancreatic fistula formation and various clinical parameters was investigated in 100 patients who underwent PD at Kochi Medical School from April 1999 through December 2007.
Seventeen patients were treated arterial infusion of protease inhibitor and antibiotics via both celiac artery and superior mesenteric artery. Changes of Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score and mortality were evaluated.
One hundred-fifty consecutive patients with pancreatic cancer evaluated from January 2000 to April 2005 were included in this retrospective study. Seventy pancreatic cancer patients underwent pre-operative evaluation using SD-CT and angiography (5-7 mm slice thickness, 1st period 2000-2002), and 80 patients underwent MD-CT (1.25 mm slice thickness, 2nd period 2002-2005).
We reviewed 6 patients who underwent intraoperative pancreatography using an endoscopic naso-pancreatic drainage (ENPD) tube during local pancreatic resection for the prevention of postoperative pancreatic fistula.
Potential subjects comprised 27 patients who underwent splenectomy (including laparoscopic splenectomy) at our hospital between January 2003 and December 2005 for hypersplenism due to liver cirrhosis. Perioperative data were assessed for 17 patients who did not have portal tumor thrombus and followed-up regularly.
We examined the 17 MGC lesions phenotypically and histologically by using several gastric and intestinal epithelial cell markers, MUC5AC, MUC6, MUC2 and villin.
Twenty patients were evaluated for 12 weeks. One cycle was 3 weeks and S-1 (day1-14) and Paclitaxel (days1 and 8) were administered. LNT was used once a week (days 1, 8 and 15) and it was used for all 12 weeks in the LNT 12-wk group and only for the last 6 weeks in the LNT 6-wk group. QOL was evaluated weekly by QOL-ACD, and binding of LNT to monocytes was measured by flow cytometry.
Twelve Helicobacter pylori-negative male subjects participated in this randomized, two-way crossover study. Intragastric pH was monitored continuously for 4 hours after single intravenous administration of lansoprazole 30 mg or famotidine 20 mg.
Twenty-two patients with histologically confirmed metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma were treated with a combination of epirubicin 50 mg/m2 (day 1), cisplatin 60 mg/m2 (day 1), 5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m2 (days 1 to 5), and Chloroxoquinoline 400 mg (days 1 to 21), with the cycle repeated every three weeks.
Ninety subjects were included in this study, that is; 18 patients with GU, 25 EGC, 17 advance gastric cancer (AGC), and 30 healthy volunteers (HV). SPT was conducted before treatment in all the subjects, and in 6 patients each with GU and EGC after treatment- proton pump inhibitor for GU and endoscopic mucosal resection for EGC. Diagnostic values were calculated based on cut-off values estimated from the ROC curves.
Among the patients with genetically determined enzymopathies 3 patients had aminoacidopathies, and 11 had different types of encephalopathies, from which 10 had mitochondrial encephalomyopathy (MEMP), and 1 patient had hyperuricaemic encephalopathy. Besides the mentioned 14 patients, 1 had ceroid lipofuscinosis and another patient had tuberous sclerosis. The further distribution of the MEMP patients' group was the following--5 patients had MEMP with lactic acidosis, 5 had Leigh's disease (subacute necrotizing encephalopathy), from which 1 had cytochrome-c-oxidase deficiency (COX). Additionally in all patients were performed cerebral MRI and SPECT examination 10 min. after intravenous administration of 20 Mbq/kg 99 mTc-HMPAO.
Neonates admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) between January 2001 and December 2006 were included in this study. Patients were divided into early-onset sepsis and late-onset sepsis groups if their culture tested positive within the first 7 days of life or later, respectively.
We searched medical records for all patients with scrub typhus who were hospitalized between 1992 and 2002 at the Taitung branch of Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taiwan. Records of children under the age of 18 with a confirmed diagnosis were selected for retrospective review.
A series of anthropometric measurements, imaging, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, and endocrine investigations to assess metabolic complications such as hyperinsulinemia and dyslipidemia were performed on these five patients who were followed for 1-7 years. Screening of inborn errors, karyotyping, chromosomal breakage rates and DNA mutational studies with direct sequencing of LMNA, ERCC8 and ZMPSTE24 genes were also performed.
In total, between July 2005 and June 2006, 36 VLBW preterm babies were admitted to our neonatal intensive care unit and were randomly allocated to the "restrictive" (n= 19) or "liberal" (n= 17) criteria for PRBC transfusion. Complete blood count (CBC) was examined at admission and 30 days later. Reticulocyte counts, serum iron and ferritin were examined and compared with the clinical outcomes.
Pyloric length, diameter, muscle thickness and intermuscular space were measured sonographically at diagnosis and daily after pyloromyotomy until discharge in 12 infants with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. The ratios of pyloric wall thickness and intermuscular space to the entire pyloric diameter were measured.
Pigs were subjected to total pancreatectomy with simultaneous splenectomy and without removal of the duodenum. The collected pancreas was stored in the University of Wisconsin solution with the addition of pentoxifylline (PTX) until the isolation procedure (&lt;4 hours). Efficacy of isolation was evaluated based on the number, quality and viability of obtained islets. Following autotransplantation into the liver, secretory activity of the islets was assessed intravitally by serum glucose monitoring.
Eleven clinically stable patients were enrolled in the study (5 women and 6 men; mean age, 50.4 +/- 18.3 years), treated with PD for 26.9 +/- 22.4 months. Water transperitoneal transport was evaluated using a modified version of Babb-Randerson-Farrell thermodynamic model of membrane transport with human albumin marked with iodine as the marker of intraperitoneal volume. Based on blood and dialysate samples collected during the 16-hour dialysis exchange, the intraperitoneal volume of dialysate and dialysate reverse absorption were calculated.
Langerhans islets were isolated from rats and pigs and immunoisolated by encapsulation in alginate-protamine-heparin (APH) or alginate-poly-L-lysine-alginate (APA) membranes. Islets were pooled in a controlled manner. Tests for cryopreservation and biocompatibility were also performed.
Performance was evaluated quantitatively as the number of publications in 125 journals indexed as 'oncological' by Journal Citation Reports and qualitatively as the total impact factor (TIF). Number of publications and TIF were adjusted for the population and gross domestic product (GDP) of each country. The Scopus database was used as publication source.
We derived annual numbers of incident cases combining mortality data provided by the World Health Organization and information on relative survival from kidney cancer and we subsequently derived 5-year prevalence by combining incidence with information on survival. We provided different projection estimates for the years 2007 and 2012 for incidence and prevalence, on the basis of various hypothetical scenarios, i.e., stable rates over time or steady falls by 1% per year.
Data from the Italian Network of Cancer Registries were used to estimate the annual number of new cervical cancer cases. To assess the management costs, a typical management pathway for each FIGO (Fédération Internationale de Gynécologie et d'Obstétrique) cervical cancer stage was derived from published guidelines. Data from the Modena Cancer Registry were used to estimate the proportion of patients by FIGO stage. This algorithm was combined with tariffs for outpatient and inpatient procedures to obtain a mean cost for each FIGO stage.
The system of calculation used as variables prognostic factors of breast cancer: pathologic size, tumor type and nuclear grade, lymphovascular invasion, multifocality, estrogen receptor status, method of detection of the sentinel lymph nodes metastases (frozen section, serial hematoxylin-eosin, routine hematoxylin-eosin, and immunohistochemistry), number of positive and number of negative sentinel lymph nodes.
We retrospectively reviewed the clinical data of 7 cases of primary pancreatic lymphoma admitted to Huashan Hospital in the past 3 years. Available English literature was also reviewed using the following terms: primary pancreatic lymphoma and pancreatic lymphoma.
One hundred and four patients with stage T1b-T3b prostate cancer were treated with three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy to a total dose of 74 Gy, 2 Gy per fraction. Rigid dose constraints were applied for rectum and bladder. Acute and late rectal and urinary toxicities were analyzed also in relation to dose-volume histograms. Biochemical relapse-free survival was defined according to the American Society of Therapeutic Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) criteria and to the RTOG-ASTRO Phoenix Consensus Conference Recommendations using the Kaplan-Meier method.
The CNAO will be a center capable of using both protons and carbon ions. In the first phase, three rooms with vertical and horizontal fixed beams will be available, subsequently the center will be upgraded with two more rooms equipped with a rotating gantry. The facility will use active scanning delivery systems and state-of-the-art immobilization and setup verification devices. One additional room will be devoted to physical and radiobiological research. The CNAO will be a high-patient-throughput facility capable of treating more than 3,000 patients per year. Seven areas of interest have been identified: lung cancer, liver cancer, head and neck malignancies, pediatric solid cancers, eye tumors, sarcoma and central nervous system cancers. A disease-specific working group has been created for each area and has defined selection criteria and protocols to be used at the CNAO. Two more working groups are being set up on gynecological and digestive (pancreas, biliary tract and rectum) tumors. All the patients will participate in clinical trials to establish with sound evidence the real indications for hadron therapy. National and international cooperation networks are being set up to facilitate patient referral and follow-up. A medical service is already operative to assist patients and in selected case to refer them abroad.
In 6 patients, PET/CT scans with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose were performed before (PET0), during (PET1; at a median of 14 days before the end of radiotherapy) and after the end of radiotherapy (PET2 and PET3, at a median of 28 and 93 days, respectively). The metabolic response was scored according to visual and semiquantitative criteria.
Data from 60 patients with cervical lymph node metastases of squamous cell carcinoma from an unknown primary site were reviewed. Nine of 60 patients (15.0%) received excisional biopsy. Radiotherapy was delivered to the bilateral neck and pharyngeal mucosa (extensive field) in 11 patients (18.3%), to the bilateral neck in 24 patients (40.0%), and to the ipsilateral neck in 25 patients (41.7%). Fourteen patients (23.3%) also received chemotherapy.
Forty-one patients were analyzed. All patients received radiotherapy (2 Gy daily fractionation dose, median 60 Gy total doses) and concomitant temozolomide (at a daily dose of 75 mg/m2/day, 7 days per week) after surgery. Thirty-one patients received an average of 6 cycles (range, 1-8 cycles) of adjuvant temozolomide after radiotherapy, every 28 days for 5 days at a dose of 200 mg/m2/day. The primary end point was overall survival.
A total of 36 patients was treated with radiotherapy after partial laryngectomy at the Radiotherapy Department of the Institute for Cancer Treatment and Research (IRCC) of Candiolo and of the Mauriziano Hospital in Turin, between 1994 and 2007. The postoperative treatment doses ranged from 45 to 70.2 Gy with conventional fractionation. The Kaplan-Meier method was applied for statistical analysis. The RTOG-EORTC scale was used to evaluate late and acute toxicity.
Fifty-seven patients who met the inclusion criteria of our study were evaluated. The characteristics (age, menopausal status, histological subtype, tumor grade, presence of ascites at diagnosis, type of omentectomy, FIGO stage, and residual tumor volume after primary surgery) of patients with and those without tumor recurrence were compared.
The study group consisted of 112 patients who had undergone all treatment at a single institution under the care of a multidisciplinary breast team. Following surgery, all patients underwent adjuvant radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy and hormone therapy. At the time of this study all patients were disease free with at least 2 years' follow-up. Twenty percent of the patients were premenopausal and 80% postmenopausal. The patients completed a questionnaire consisting of 42 questions related to their sexual relations and body image.
The pharmacoeconomic evaluation was based on a decision-analytic model taking into account the possible consequences of FN (e.g., death and reduction/delay of chemotherapy dose). Parameters included in the model were relative risk of FN with pegfilgrastim versus six-day filgrastim; direct costs (drug purchase and FN-related hospitalizations); relative risk of relative dose intensity &lt; 85% with pegfilgrastim versus filgrastim; impact on long-term survival due to relative dose intensity &lt; 85%; and impact of age on FN and relative dose intensity &lt; 85%.
The rats were divided into two groups, a control group (n = 70) and a chemoprevention group (n = 70). Breast tumors were induced in both groups by administration of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a] anthracene (DMBA). The chemoprevention group also received alpha-tocopherol and a solution of micronutrients containing ascorbic acid and selenium. Neoplastic lesions of both groups were randomly selected for immunohistochemical assessment of the expression of GLUT-1, transglutaminase 2 and claudin-1.
We present a patient with two independent giant basal cell carcinomas over the left clavicle and the lower back, measuring 7 x 12 cm and 18 x 20 cm, respectively. Both tumors were excised incompletely (R2) and the patient refused followup resections. After 52 and 16 months, respectively, no signs of recurrence were observed. CONCLUSION; Incompletely excised giant basal cell carcinomas can regress spontaneously. A watch-and-wait approach after incomplete resection may be pragmatic to avoid mutilating follow-up resections in patients refusing further surgery.
The publications used as information sources were obtained from structured data search in electronic databases, such as CENTRAL (Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials) and MEDLINE (online). Each item of this guideline derived from an original question which was distributed to the participants. Search strategies were prepared to select the studies presenting the best methodological quality, according to predefined levels of evidence.
A retrospective study was performed in a cohort of 250 patients that did not undergo screening and diagnosis in clinical practice of localized CaP (T1c-T2cNxM0). All patients were treated with radical prostatectomy between 2001 and 2008. Data about clinical and pathological findings, and also the existence of dyslipemia as well as treatment with statins for at least 5 years was collected and analyzed. A logistic regression analysis was performed to determine the independent predictive variables related with a more favorable pathology.
In our study, we analysed a group of 16 patients submitted to TURP pre-brachytherapy. The mean quality of life score from ICSmaleSF questionnaire ranged from 0 to 1 before and after brachytheraphy (average: 0,18 -- before; average: 0,20 -- after). There was no estatistically significant difference between the former values (p&lt;0,001). After brachytherapy patients were evaluated for lower urinary tract symptoms. The time interval between TURP and brachytherapy ranged from 30 to 90 days (average: 60 days). Post-brachytherapy follow-up varied between 3 and 60 months (average: 30 months).
A systematic review of the recent literature on the diagnosis and treatment of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer was performed. The guidelines were updated and the level of evidence and grade of recommendation were assigned.
[corrected] Fifteen patients with renal tumor and IVC thrombus, underwent radical nephrectomy and thrombectomy, and were retrospectively evaluated. Patients were followed for 0 to 36 months (mean of 9.5 months). Computed tomography (CT) scan with three-dimensional reconstruction was used to define IVC thrombus level.
Retrospective study of 80 cases of patients that were operated between 2005-2008; all of them went under radical prostatectomy and were treated with sildenafil 100 mg every second day (Monday, Wednesday and Friday) plus 100 mg on demand after the surgery. As objective measurements, we used validated questionnaire IIEF-5 and also axil penile rigidity before and after surgery in the third and ninth month.
We search in Medline/PubMed database for reviews about cystic dysplasia of the testis. We review and discuss the relevant literature about it.
Systematic review of the literature and application of the skills of metaanalisis to value the efficiency of the DHEA/S, for it settles down the process of prospective form, 152 articles were checked and 25 were in use for adding only their results.
From December 2004 to March 2007, a total of 34 patients with posterior defect grade III or higher underwent this procedure. The minimum follow up was 13 months Mean age was 63 years. The site of fixation was the Sacrospinous ligament.
The ischiorectal fossa is dissected. Next two small skin incisions are made 3 cm lateral and inferior to the center of the anus. A proper needle is introduced, vertically towards the sacrospinal ligament at the level of the ischial spine, guided by the surgeon index finger, 2 cm medially avoiding the Alcok canal. The armpit of the mesh is connected to the tip of the needle and brought to the perineal region. No site specific correction is made.
This is an epidemiologic, cross-sectional and multicenter study. HRQoL of 1,100 women with mixed UI was evaluated using the Spanish version of "King's Health Questionnaire" (KHQ). Personal data of patients were also collected along with medical records and clinical data related to diagnostic and treatment of UI.
A retrospective study was conducted, reviewing the clinical charts of 43 patients admitted to the San Vicente of Paul Hospital, with diagnosis of traumatic rupture of the posterior urethra from 1987 to 2007. We analyzed different demographic data, type of surgical correction, early and late complications.
It's a retrospective study of 16 infants treated in our hospital. The average follow-up after the intervention is 27.4 +/- 10.0 months. The diagnostic protocol included abdominal ultrasound, cystogram and diuretic renography. The treatment was realized by endourology retrograde balloon dilatation under fluoroscopy. The balloons were in all the cases semicompliant, with a profile of 5 mm, 6 mm 6 7 mm. After the expansion there was placed stents type double J with profile and length depending on the weight of the patient. To obtain the results, we do ultrasound scans and diuretic renography at least 1 year after the intervention.
Descriptive study of 54 patients (37 men and 17 women), with lithiasic pathology at high risk of recurrence. The metabolic study included the measurement of calcemia, uricemia, fosfemia, parathormone, calciuria/24 h, uricosuria/24 h, fosfaturia/24 h, oxalaturia/24 h, citraturia/24 h and creatinine/24 h. The values obtained were corrected according to weight and creatinine. The test used for statistical analysis was t-student (STATA 7.0). It was considered significant p&lt;0.05.
The two cases of extraperitoneal bladder rupture here presented, demonstrate the difficulties of a secure diagnosis by CT, and the potential severity of the existence of bone fragments impronting the bladder disruption.
We describe a case of a 60-year-old male suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A routine-performed CT showed multiple lymphadenopathies and an hypodense area in the left prostatic lobe. The patient was sent to our department to carry out a transrectal ultrasound and prostatic biopsy. He didn't relate any urinary symptoms.
Prospective clinical trial in ASA 1-2 patients undergoing gynecologic surgery. The patients were randomized to 2 groups: the remifentanil group received a perfusion of 1 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) until intubation whereas the fentanyl group received a bolus dose of 2 microg x kg(-1). Etomidate (0.3 mg x kg(-1)) and rocuronium bromide (0.6 mg x kg(-1)) were used for anesthetic induction. Seven serial measurements of systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure were recorded in addition to heart rate and peripheral blood oxyhemoglobin saturation at the following times: baseline, denitrogenation, postinduction, and 3 more times at consecutive 2-minute intervals.
Observational study of 70 patients treated with spinal cord stimulation in the following postures and situations: decubitus position, standing, seated, and walking. With the patients standing, we analyzed the thresholds of perception, pain, and pain relief, as well as the therapeutic range. Studies were performed in all patients. Later, data were analyzed by anatomical positioning of the stimulator (cervical, thoracic, sacral, occipital, or subcutaneous).
A national e-mail survey was implemented, contacting 300 randomly selected HSTs in general surgery. A questionnaire was used to ascertain their current practice and the presence or absence of formal diathermy training.
This prospective study was conducted in the surgical departments of three tertiary care hospitals of the Khyber Medical University, Peshawar, Pakistan, from 1 January 2002 to 30 June 2007. Detailed history and examination of all patients were carried out to reach the diagnosis of Fournier's gangrene. After initial resuscitation, patients were treated aggressively, including surgical debridement.
Eighteen patients referred to our imaging department with a provisional diagnosis on ultrasound of renal tract duplication during a three year period were identified by searching the radiological computer files. The presenting features were urinary infection (13), abdominal pain (3) and abnormal antenatal sonography (2).
Prospectively entered data were reviewed for all patients (n=100) that underwent breast conserving surgery for DCIS by the senior author over a ten year period. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were calculated for the total sample and for a series of univariate analyses.
Multielectrode recording have been done in every kid before and after hemodialysis. For every record it was created isopotential map. By the comparing our maps with model maps for healthy children it was affirmed that in greater part of studied examples of hemodialysed children there are present early changes indicating conducting disturbances in left bundle of fasciculus atrioventricularis (His) and initial stage of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). That changes haven't been confirmed in classic ECG, which suggests that the disturbances in excitation conductance observed on isointegral maps are far beyond the area detected by 12-electrode classic ECG recording.
48 children (27 males and 21 females) with IgAN (n=21) and SHN (n=27) aged from 4.5 to 19 mean 13.3 years were enrolled into the study. In all patients ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) was performed. In detail pulse pressure during 24 hours, activity and rest period (PP/24 h, PP/a, PP/r) as index PP (PPI) and circadian blood pressure profile were analyzed. In all patients BMI Z-score, hypertensive medications, GFR according to Schwartz formula and serum uric acid level were evaluated.
OPN, PDGF-BB and BMP-7 plasma concentrations were assessed by ELISA, in 16 children on PD, in 13 on HD and in 12 controls with normal kidney function.
11 children and young adults on chronic HD were enrolled in the study, 15 age-matched subjects with normal kidney function served as controls. The serum concentrations of MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 were assessed by ELISA.
The study group included 77 nephrotic children (aged 2-18 years) divided into four groups, i.e. in acute phase of the disease (24), during steroid-induced (24), steroid-free (12) and in long-term remission (17). Twenty five healthy children served as controls. GSH and HCY in plasma were assessed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Fraction of protein-bound and free aminothiols was assessed and albumin saturation was calculated.
39 children with INS aged 2.5-17 year (mean 9.35 +/- 5.6), 15 children in relapse, 24 in remission and 8 healthy were included into the study. Serum total protein, albumin, cholesterol, daily proteinuria and BMI were measured in children with INS. Serum resistin and adiponectin levels were determined by ELISA.
Retrospectively, causes of ESRD, frequency, duration of the disease until diagnosis of ESRD in 195 children treated in 1973-2008 were analysed.
Presented work is based on questionnaire research, carried out from December 2006 to March 2007. It has included 82 nurses, who working in dialyses stations in Lodz province.
The study group consisted of 150 adult dialysis patients treated with hemodialysis in dialysis units in Lodz region. The participants were asked to fill out an anonymous questionnaire specially tailored for the study.
Examinations were conducted on 71 children, 3-15 years old: (A)--44 children with NS (proteinuria above 50 mg/kg b.v./24 hours); (B)--27 children without proteinuria (remission NS). Control group (K)--30 healthy children. Concentration of LN and FN were determined by EIA.
The study group was 7 patients (hemodialysed--2 boys, mean age 7, 7+/-0.1; peritoneal dialysis--5: 3 boys and 2 girls, mean age 5, 6+/-5.0). Sevelamer (Renagel, 800 mg, Genzyme) was used in all patients in mean dosis of 117 mg/kgm.c./d due to lack of effect of the typical treatment (vitamin D, diet, calcium carbonate). Results of treatment by sevelamer were estimated by measuring of calcium, phosphates, albumins, parathormone and alkalic phosphate concentration in the serum and blood gases after 6 and 12 month.
105 neonates and infants with hydronephrosis were assessed between Jan and Dec 2007 (27 girls and 78 boys). All patients had postnatal ultrasound performed. Static and dynamic scyntigraphy and cystography were performed according to set indications. Therapeutic decisions were made following a team meeting between pediatric nephrologists and urologists.
Nephrotic syndrome (NS) with microscopic hematuria was recognized in a boy in the age of 9.7 years. In kidney biopsy focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis was found. Remission was obtained on oral prednisone (60 mg/24 hrs). Second relapse of NS was treated with methylprednisolone pulse (VI pulses--600 mg/pulse) with a good effect. Third relapse of NS (secondary steroidoresistency) was treated with oral cyclophosphamide in a total dose 140 mg/kg/therapy--the treatment was complicated by a massive oral cavity mycosis and sinusitis. 3 weeks after starting cyclosporine A (CsA) proteinuria subsided. During CsA treatment severe headaches and pains in orbits with nausea appeared. In neurological examinations no abnormalities were found, in ophthalmological examination--slight opacification of the lens was found. EEG revealed lesions localised in a posterior cerebral parts, and CT of the head showed slight dilatation of ventricles. In MRI foci of signal intensification were found in subcortical white substance. CsA was stopped after 4 months of the treatment and prednisone was stopped a month later. Control MRI after 6 months revealed maintenance of the foci in white substance. The patient is under nephrological care, has no proteinuria and no neurological symptoms.
The methods of descriptive epidemiology were used. We included all County population with the diagnosis of fatal injuries (S00-T98, ICD-10) recorded during the study period. Mortality data were collected from the Central Bureau of Statistics. The distribution of mortality indicators according to the cause of death, age and sex is presented as absolute numbers, percentage and specific rates per 100,000 population.
This cross-sectional study was carried out in 77 DMT2 patients in two family medicine practices. Patients filled out two questionnaires: on patient general data and ZLK-90-2 questionnaire. Statistic analysis was done using Statistica, version 7.1 software, and values of P &lt; 0.05 were considered statistically significant.
This prospective study was conducted in the course of one month at six GP practices (three urban and one rural practice in inland area, and one urban and one rural practice in coastal area of Croatia). Patient sociodemographic data (age and sex), referral request (by patient, GP, GP and specialist in agreement, specialist only) and kind of visit (first, follow-up) were collected. The contribution of referrals was assessed by GPs using modified Likert's scale (1-markedly significant, 2-significant, 3-undetermined, 4-small and 5-insignificant). On comparison of frequencies chi square test was used. Statistical analyses were done by use of licensed software (SAS Institute Inc, Cary, NC, USA).
In this retrospective study we reviewed records on 30 patients that had undergone VCE at Dubrava University Hospital, Zagreb, Croatia, between October 2006 and February 2008. The indications for VCE were restricted to the investigation of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (OGIB) (n = 10), iron deficiency anemia (n = 2), suspected Crohn's disease (n = 1), assessment of known small bowel Crohn's disease (n = 5), unexplained diarrhea (n = 6), chronic abdominal pain (n = 3), suspected ganglioneurinoma (n = 1) and suspected polyposis syndrome (n = 2). To be eligible for VCE, patients had to have previously undergone usual diagnostic methods of upper endoscopy, colonoscopy and small bowel follow-through, without discovering the cause of their symptoms. Before swallowing the capsule, patients were instructed not to eat anything the day before VCE and to drink 4 L of liquids, and additional 2 L magnesium sulfate. In all patients we used Olympus EndoCapsule Software (Tokyo, Japan). Results were interpreted by one specialist, gastroenterologist.
The number of defined daily doses (DDD) and DDD per 1000 Zagreb inhabitants per day (DDD/1000/day) were calculated on the basis of data on the number of packages of each individual hypolipemic (C10) for each study year. Data on the rate of hospitalization for the leading cardiovascular complications were collected as indirect indicators of the statin prescribing quality.
One hundred consecutive coronary computed tomography angiography examinations of female patients were retrospectively evaluated to define the angle between the long axis of the left heart and the axial imaging plane. The scan length required to image the entire left ventricle along with the coronary arteries was measured for an axial scan plane as well as for a scan plane parallel to the long axis of the left heart. The overlap between these imaging volumes and the lower portion of the breast was measured.
A prototype DEI system was constructed using a 1-kW tungsten x-ray tube and a single silicon monochromator and analyzer crystal. The monochromator crystal was aligned to reflect the combined Kalpha1 (59.32 keV) and Kalpha2 (57.98 keV) characteristic emission lines of tungsten using a tube voltage of 160 kV. System performance and demonstration of contrast were evaluated using a nylon monofilament refraction phantom, full-thickness breast specimens, a human thumb, and a live mouse.
Images from 128 women who had oophorectomies during a 16-month period with CT and/or MR studies within 5 years of surgery (145 CT scans from 103 women and 49 MR studies from 42 women, with 17 having both MR and CT studies) were reviewed by three radiologists who assigned QA scores of 0 (no QA issue), 1 (minor issue with minimal impact on clinical care), or 2 (major issue with potential impact on clinical care). The difficulty of diagnosis was assigned a score of 0 (very difficult diagnosis to make), 1 (difficult but possible to make the diagnosis), or 2 (diagnosis should be made). The incidence of adnexal QA issues was calculated using total CT and MR pelvic examinations performed on women during the interval.
Imaging findings of 10 fat-containing HCCs on CT (n = 2) or MRI (n = 3) or on both CT and MRI (n = 5) were retrospectively reviewed in 9 patients. Both techniques included serial contrast enhanced imaging in arterial, portal venous, and late venous phases.
Non-gated axial computed tomography (CT) of the chest has traditionally been used to evaluate normal great vessel anatomy for prognosis and management. However, non-gated axial chest CT cannot account for the obliquity, systolic expansion, and non-axial motion of the great vessels during the cardiac cycle and may misclassify patients as normal or abnormal for prognostic and management purposes. To date, normative reference values for double-oblique, short-axis great vessel diameters have not been established using current generation electrocardiogram (ECG)-gated 64-detector row MDCT. A total of 103 (43% women, age 51 +/- 14 years) consecutive normotensive, non-obese adults free of cardiopulmonary or great vessel structural disease, arrhythmias, or significant coronary artery disease were studied by MDCT. Individuals underwent examination for determination of end-diastolic (ED) pulmonary artery (PA) and superior vena cava (SVC) dimensions in double-oblique short axes for comparison with the ascending aorta and the right-sided cardiac chambers.
Computed tomographic examinations were performed on 48 patients with existing or suspicious pulmonary nodules on chest radiography. Three radiologists independently reported the location and pattern (GGO, solid, or part solid) of each nodule candidate on computed tomographic scans, assigned each a confidence score, and then analyzed all scans using the CAD system. A reference standard was established by a consensus panel of different radiologists, who found 229 noncalcified nodules with diameters &gt; or = 4 mm. True-positive and false-positive results and confidence levels were used to generate jackknife alternative free-response receiver-operating characteristic plots.
Cross-sectional imaging of a multimodality vascular phantom was performed using intravascular and surface MRI, multidetector computed tomography, and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). Using a balanced steady-state free-precession sequence, 18 sequences parameters sets were investigated (12 for intravascular MRI and 6 for surface MRI). Vessel diameters for all images and modalities were computed using an automated vessel segmentation algorithm.
Testing this hypothesis required an ability to measure eyestrain. This capability was developed by measuring the visual accommodation of radiologists before and after diagnostic viewing work using an autorefractor that was capable of making multiple measurements of accommodation per second. Three radiologists and three residents focused on a simple target placed at near to far distances while accommodation was measured. The target distances varied from 20 to 183 cm from the eye. The data were collected prior to and after a day of digital diagnostic viewing.
A chest phantom containing 13 artificial GGO nodules with known volumes was scanned using a 64-slice computed tomographic scanner at different tube currents (30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, and 210 mA). Volumetric measurements were performed using software. The relative percentage error and the absolute percentage error between the volume measures on computed tomography and the reference-standard volumes were calculated. Correlations between the mean absolute percentage error and the mean attenuation of nodules and between the ratio of solid component and the mean attenuation of nodules were analyzed.
An anthropomorphic phantom was scanned with a 64-section CT scanner using following tube voltages: 140 kVp (Protocol A), 120 kVp (Protocol B), 100 kVp (Protocol C), and 80 kVp (Protocol D). To achieve similar noise, combined z-axis and xy-axes automatic tube current modulation was applied. Effective dose (ED) for the four tube voltages was assessed. Three plastic vials filled with different concentrations of iodinated solution were placed on the phantom's abdomen to obtain attenuation measurements. The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) was calculated and a figure of merit (FOM) for each iodinated solution was computed as SNR(2)/ED.
Four components (free water [FW], olive oil [OL], 2% and 4% agar gels [2A and 4A, respectively]) were arranged in a phantom set. Seven MR images were obtained with different echo time and repetition time. ICA was performed on 23 combinations of four components. A segregation rate higher than 70% was defined as effective.
CEUS was performed in 12 female rabbits with breast VX2 tumor after subcutaneous administration of SonoVue. The site, number, and pattern of enhancement of the SLNs were observed and recorded. After CEUS, 0.5 mL of blue dye was injected into the same location as SonoVue and the SLNs were detected by surgical dissection. The findings of CEUS were compared with those of blue dye.
Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) and localized ROC (LROC) analysis of clinical images was performed using the standard digital image database of the Japanese Radiation Technology Society. A total of 30 images with and 20 images without nodule samples were extracted randomly from the database and used for ROC analysis. A total of 100 images were prepared for observation of reduced and nonreduced images. Observers' viewing images were adjusted as nonreduced size (large, 30 x 30 cm) and reduced size (small, 15 x 15 cm).
A survey was sent to all members of the Society of Chairs of Academic Radiology Departments. Respondents were asked to indicate the number of trainees in their program and whether they participated in internal or external moonlighting. If internal moonlighting occurred, the chair was asked in which postgraduate year residents were permitted to moonlight internally. If external moonlighting was permitted, the respondents were asked which postgraduate year trainees were permitted to moonlight outside of their institution.
Cadaveric human tali (normal and degenerated) and a knee and thumb were imaged with DEI using a conventional x-ray tube and DEI setup that included a double-silicon crystal monochromator and a silicon crystal analyzer positioned between the imaged object and the detector.
Twenty-five published articles (1987-2002) were reviewed to identify potential ADCPQ domains. Three caregiver focus groups (n=24) were conducted to develop a first draft of the questionnaire. After evaluating the acceptance of ADCPQ to caregivers through in-depth interviews (n=10), its psychometric properties were assessed using data from 986 patients enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, four-arm, placebo- and active-controlled, 24-week trial.
Double-masked, randomized, 3-month clinical trial of 37 patients with rosacea-associated eyelid and corneal changes (defined as lid margin telangiectasia, meibomian gland inspissation, and/or fullness of the lid margin). All findings were standardized and compared to photographs for grading.
Ten formalin-fixed cadavers were dissected to examine the appearance and structure of the puborectalis and its relationship with the peripheral organs. The puborectalis was also observed in a fresh male cadaver using transrectal ultrasound. In the fresh male cadaver, the puborectalis was located using transrectal sonography, the muscle was confirmed by anatomy, and the thickness was measured.
In this single-center, investigator-masked trial, patients undergoing cataract surgery were randomized to receive either ketorolac 0.4% q.i.d. or bromfenac 0.09% b.i.d. for 2 days preoperatively. Aqueous humor was collected at the start of surgery 6 hours after the last dose of ketorolac 0.4% and 12 hours after the last dose of bromfenac 0.09%. Aqueous PGE(2) levels and drug concentrations were evaluated by a competitive enzyme immunoassay and reverse-phase HPLC-mass spectroscopy, respectively.
Twenty-one Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes were enrolled in this study. Subjects had been treated with voglibose for at least 3 months. They underwent a 400 kcal balanced food meal tolerance test before and 8 weeks after the changeover from voglibose to acarbose. Subjects were divided into two groups: the first group (low-dose group; n=11) was changed over from 0.6 mg/day voglibose to 150 mg/day acarbose, and the other (high-dose group; n=10) from 0.9 mg/day voglibose to 300 mg/day acarbose.
We searched the PubMed database combining HIV/AIDS with different keywords for psychiatric diagnoses and symptoms (e.g. depression, mania, anxiety, psychosis, dementia, substance abuse) and for psychopharmacological treatment. The years covered by these searches included 1980 to 2008.
Patients with an onset of schizophrenia at 12 years or younger, were included. From the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Studies (DIGS), patients' information and summary report data was tabulated and analyzed. Specific subgroups were further compared. This sub-population of 12 subjects was further compared with a group of the adult sample.
500 Yorubas in Lagos were randomly sampled (with a questionnaire), and 100 'home video' films were analyzed. Data were analyzed for: elements of world view; elements that pertain to illness in general; elements that pertain to psychotic illness; how such illness is to be treated.
A preliminary overview of health literature was done on formal mental health care and traditional alternatives in South Africa since the 1950's. Important themes were identified as first step in a qualitative approach to identify concepts.
3 randomized trials of the DIRECT (Diabetic Retinopathy Candesartan Trials) Program.
309 secondary care centers.
3326 and 1905 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, respectively. Most were normotensive, and all had normoalbuminuria (median urinary albumin excretion rate, 5.0 microg/min).
Candesartan, 16 mg/d increasing to 32 mg/d, versus placebo. Assignment was done centrally using an interactive voice-response system. Patients, caregivers, and researchers were blinded to treatment assignment. During a median follow-up of 4.7 years, 793 patients discontinued therapy and 63 were lost to follow-up.
Urinary albumin excretion rate, assessed annually by 2 overnight collections; if it was 20 microg/min or greater, then 2 further collections were done. The primary end point was new microalbuminuria (3 or 4 collections of urinary albumin excretion rate &gt;or=20 microg/min). The secondary end point was rate of change in albuminuria.
Randomized trial. Patients were randomly assigned by a central automated system between November 2001 and May 2004 and were followed until March 2008. Participants and investigators were blinded to intervention status.
Multicenter, multinational study.
5927 adults with known cardiovascular disease or diabetes with end-organ damage but without macroalbuminuria or heart failure who cannot tolerate angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Telmisartan, 80 mg/d (n = 2954), or matching placebo (n = 2972) plus standard treatment for a mean of 56 months.
Composite renal outcome of dialysis or doubling of serum creatinine, changes in estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and changes in albuminuria.
Retrospective cohort study.
2 hospitals in the Veterans Affairs Health Care System.
Patients with new dilations of the abdominal aorta detected on CT performed in 2003.
Radiology report and EMR evidence that the radiologist notified the clinical service, aneurysm size, and interval between CT and EMR recognition.
Cross-sectional analysis.
119 ambulatory clinics in New York, New York, and in the upper Midwest.
422 family practitioners and general internists and 1795 of their adult patients with diabetes, hypertension, or heart failure.
Physician perception of clinic workflow (time pressure and pace), work control, and organizational culture (assessed survey); physician satisfaction, stress, burnout, and intent to leave practice (assessed by survey); and health care quality and errors (assessed by chart audits).
Update of the 1996 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendation statement on screening for visual impairment.
The USPSTF reviewed evidence published since its last review on screening adults 65 years or older in the primary care setting for visual acuity impairment associated with uncorrected refractive errors, cataracts, and age-related macular degeneration.
MEDLINE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews were searched for studies published in English from 1996 to July 2008.
Randomized trials and controlled observational studies that directly evaluated screening for impaired visual acuity in older adults were selected. To evaluate indirect evidence on screening, investigators included studies of diagnostic test accuracy and systematic reviews, randomized trials, and controlled observational studies of treatments for uncorrected refractive errors, cataracts, and age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
Details were abstracted about the patient sample, study design, data analysis, follow-up, and results. Quality was assessed by using predefined criteria.
Forty-five adults were randomly assigned to an Internet intervention (n = 22) or wait-list control group (n = 23). Forty-four eligible participants (mean [SD] age, 44.86 [11.03] years; 34 women) who had a history of sleep difficulties longer than 10 years on average (mean [SD], 10.59 [8.89] years) were included in the analyses.
The Internet intervention is based on well-established face-to-face cognitive behavioral therapy incorporating the primary components of sleep restriction, stimulus control, sleep hygiene, cognitive restructuring, and relapse prevention.
The Insomnia Severity Index and daily sleep diary data were used to determine changes in insomnia severity and the main sleep variables, including wake after sleep onset and sleep efficiency.
Multivariate neuroanatomical pattern classification was performed on the structural magnetic resonance imaging data of individuals in early or late ARMS vs healthy controls (HCs). The predictive power of the method was then evaluated by categorizing the baseline imaging data of individuals with transition to psychosis vs those without transition vs HCs after 4 years of clinical follow-up. Classification generalizability was estimated by cross-validation and by categorizing an independent cohort of 45 new HCs.
Departments of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.
The first classification analysis included 20 early and 25 late at-risk individuals and 25 matched HCs. The second analysis consisted of 15 individuals with transition, 18 without transition, and 17 matched HCs.
Specificity, sensitivity, and accuracy of classification.
A population-based cohort of 4.6 million persons born in Denmark was followed up from 1994 to 2007. Rates of mortality, somatic contacts, and invasive procedures were estimated by survival analysis.
Incidence rate ratios of heart disease admissions and heart disease mortality as well as probability of invasive cardiac procedures.
General linear model with nonstationary cluster-based inference.
Munich, Germany.
Patients with recurrent MDD (n = 134) and age-, sex-, and ethnicity-matched healthy controls (n = 143).
Associations between GSK3beta polymorphisms and regional GM volume differences.
Prospective, randomized, triple-masked, placebo-controlled study conducted from 2001 through 2005.
Three university-based hospitals.
Of approximately 750 consecutive patients referred for ECT, 319 with a major depressive episode consented, were randomized to pharmacological or ECT treatment conditions, and received at least 1 ECT treatment.
Scores on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, remission rate following completion of ECT, and selective measures of cognitive adverse effects.
Prospective longitudinal cohort study.
New Zealand.
A total of 981 members of the 1972 to 1973 Dunedin Study birth cohort (96% retention).
For each disorder, family history scores were calculated as the proportion of affected family members from data on 3 generations of the participants' families. Data collected prospectively at the study's repeated assessments (ages 11-32 years) were used to assess recurrence, impairment, and age at onset; data collected by means of a life history calendar at age 32 years were used to assess service use.
MEDLINE and PsycINFO databases.
All family studies published from January 1, 1980, to December 31, 2006, reporting morbid risk or raw counts of schizophrenia or BD in first-degree relatives (FDRs) of a proband group with DSM-III or later; International Classification of Diseases, Ninth or Tenth Revision; or research diagnostic criteria schizophrenia or BD were included. Of the original 2326 studies identified through the database search, 38 studies were used to investigate rates of BD in FDRs of probands with schizophrenia, while 39 studies were used to examine rates of schizophrenia in FDRs of BD probands.
Data were analyzed with a novel random-effects bootstrapping technique that allows for the inclusion of studies lacking a patient or control group, which made up a substantial portion of the available data. Data were also blindly weighted for methodological quality.
Twelve-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Ambulatory care center.
Fifty individuals with trichotillomania (45 women and 5 men; mean [SD] age, 34.3 [12.1] years).
N-acetylcysteine (dosing range, 1200-2400 mg/d) or placebo was administered for 12 weeks.
Patients were assessed using the Massachusetts General Hospital Hair Pulling Scale, the Clinical Global Impression scale, the Psychiatric Institute Trichotillomania Scale, and measures of depression, anxiety, and psychosocial functioning. Outcomes were examined using analysis of variance modeling analyses and linear regression in an intention-to-treat population.
Eleven waves of data from the prospective population-based Great Smoky Mountains Study (N = 1420) were used.
The Great Smoky Mountains Study is a longitudinal study of the development of psychiatric disorder and need for mental health services in rural and urban youth. A representative sample of children was recruited from 11 counties in western North Carolina.
Children in the community aged 9 to 16, 19, and 21 years.
Common psychiatric disorders were assessed in childhood (ages 9-12 years) and adolescence (ages 13-16 years) with the Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Assessment and in young adulthood (ages 19 and 21 years) with the Young Adult Psychiatric Assessment.
The GWAS tested 524,396 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). All SNPs with P &lt; 10(-4) were subjected to the follow-up study. In addition, nominally significant SNPs from genes that had also shown expression changes in rat brains after long-term alcohol consumption were selected for the follow-up step.
Five university hospitals in southern and central Germany.
The GWAS included 487 male inpatients with alcohol dependence as defined by the DSM-IV and an age at onset younger than 28 years and 1358 population-based control individuals. The follow-up study included 1024 male inpatients and 996 age-matched male controls. All the participants were of German descent.
Significant association findings in the GWAS and follow-up study with the same alleles.
Face-to-face household surveys.
Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and the Pacific.
Community-dwelling adults (N = 72,933).
The World Health Organization Composite International Diagnostic Interview assessed lifetime prevalence and age at onset of 18 DSM-IV anxiety, mood, externalizing, and substance disorders. Survival analyses estimated time-space variation in female to male odds ratios of these disorders across cohorts defined by the following age ranges: 18 to 34, 35 to 49, 50 to 64, and 65 years and older. Structural equation analysis examined predictive effects of variation in gender role traditionality on these odds ratios.
Double-blind randomized controlled trial.
Communities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
One hundred eight children aged 9 to 15 months were screened, and 100 were enrolled. Intervention Children were randomized to receive xylitol topical oral syrup (administered by their parents) twice a day (2 xylitol [4.00-g] doses and 1 sorbitol dose) (Xyl-2 x group) or thrice per day (3 xylitol [2.67-g] doses) (Xyl-3x group) vs a control syrup (1 xylitol [2.67-g] dose and 2 sorbitol doses) (control group).
The primary outcome end point of the study was the number of decayed primary teeth. A secondary outcome end point was the incidence of acute otitis media for reporting in a subsequent report.
Longitudinal, population-based cohort study.
Ontario, Canada.
Infants born in hospitals from April 1, 1996, through March 31, 2000. Infants with CCCs were identified from their newborn discharge records. Neighborhood income quintiles were obtained by linking participants' postal codes to census data.
Mortality and hospital admissions in the first year after newborn discharge. Logistic and Poisson regression analyses were used to examine the relationship between neighborhood income quintiles and outcomes, adjusting for important covariates such as low birth weight and rural residence.
Cohort study.
Rural community in the Sarlahi district of Nepal.
Mothers and newborns (n = 3189).
Birth asphyxia, defined as an infant who failed to cry at birth, and who was unable to breathe or suckle normally after birth or had convulsions.
Cluster randomized trial.
Schools from 11 states were enrolled in 2 successive cohorts from 2004 to 2008.
All public schools in the United States that included grades 6 through 8 and enrolled at least 100 students in sixth grade were recruited. Of the 40 schools that began the study, 34 (17 per condition) completed it. Data were analyzed from 5883 unique participants. Intervention Project ALERT, a manualized classroom-based substance use prevention curriculum for the middle grades, was taught to sixth and seventh graders.
Students were surveyed before the onset of the intervention, as sixth graders, and after the completion of the 2-year intervention, as seventh graders. Outcome measures included lifetime and 30-day use of cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, and inhalants.
Cross-sectional, between-subjects examination of an advergame in which children were rewarded for having their computer character consume healthier or less healthy foods and beverages. Children were randomly assigned to 1 of the following 3 conditions: (1) the healthier advergame condition, (2) the less healthy advergame condition, or (3) the control condition.
Urban public elementary schools.
Thirty low-income, African American children aged 9 to 10 years. Main Exposure Children in the treatment conditions played a less healthy or a healthier version of an advergame 2 times before choosing and eating a snack and completing the experimental measures. Children in the control group chose and ate a snack before playing the game and completing the measures.
The number of healthier snack items children selected and ate and how much children liked the game.
Longitudinal study.
School- and telephone-based surveys in New Hampshire and Vermont between September 1999 through November 1999 and February 2006 through February 2007.
A total of 2048 youths aged 16 to 21 years at follow-up. Main Exposures Baseline movie smoking exposure categorized in quartiles assessed when respondents were aged 9 to 14 years and team sports participation assessed when respondents were aged 16 to 21 years. Main Outcome Measure Established smoking (having smoked &gt; or =100 cigarettes in one's lifetime) at follow-up.
Analysis of prospective cohort study data. Wave I of the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health occurred in 1995 when participants were in grades 7 through 12. Six years later, all Wave I participants who could be located were invited to participate in Wave III and to provide a urine specimen for STI testing.
In-home interviews in the continental United States, Alaska, and Hawaii.
Population-based sample. A total of 10 783 Wave I (adolescence) and Wave III (adulthood) white and black respondents with sample weight variables. Main Exposures Chronic depression (detected at Waves I and III) and recent depression (detected at Wave III only) vs no adult depression (not detected at Wave III).
Multiple sexual partners and inconsistent condom use in the past year and a current positive test result for Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, or Trichomonas vaginalis (adulthood).
Eight focus groups.
Academic pediatric medical center.
Bereaved parents, pediatricians, pediatric residents, and nurses (N = 39). Intervention Participants were asked standardized questions related to their definition of hope, its role in medical decisions, and the benefits and detriments of hope in focus group sessions.
We identified attributes of participants' concepts of hope using qualitative analysis of audio-taped sessions.
Retrospective cohort study.
Administrative database containing inpatient records with discharge dates between January 1, 2001, and March 31, 2006.
Hospitalized pediatric patients younger than 18 years with primary procedure codes for ARP, appendectomy, pyloromyotomy, and gastrostomy tube placement. The comparisons with admissions for these common procedures were used to identify changes in the incidence of ARP per hospital per year.
The ratio of ARPs to appendectomies, pyloromyotomies, gastrostomies, and all 3 procedures combined, in each hospital by year.
A review of MEDLINE [1996-2007], six websites and key informants produced 302 publications, which reduced to 35 articles, 7 books, and 9 policy documents.
We used a case-control study to evaluate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in NFKBIA and NFKBIB (the genes encoding IkappaBalpha and IkappaBbeta, respectively) and risk of epithelial ovarian cancer. We queried 19 tagSNPs and putative-functional SNPs among 930 epithelial ovarian cancer cases and 1,037 controls from two studies.
To fill the gap in our knowledge about MMP expression in breast cancer, we analyzed the expression of all known human MMPs in a panel of twenty-five tissue samples (five normal breast tissues, ten grade 2 (G2) and ten grade 3 (G3) breast cancer tissues). As we found different expression levels for several MMPs in normal breast and breast cancer tissue as well as depending on tumor grade, we additionally analyzed the expression of MMPs in four breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7, MDA-MB-468, BT 20, ZR 75/1) commonly used in research. The results could thus be used as model for further studies on human breast cancer. Expression analysis was performed on mRNA and protein level using semiquantitative RT-PCR, Western blot, immunohistochemistry and immunocytochemistry.
We identified 1,048 Taiwanese breast carcinoma patients, of whom 167 (15.9%) had TNBC. Data used for analysis were derived from our cancer registry database for women with breast cancer who were diagnosed between 2002 January and 2006 December.
The study was a cross sectional in design that involved 265 hypertensive patients receiving treatment at the medical outpatient unit of the Federal Medical Centre Abeokuta, Nigeria. They were all consecutive patients that presented at the hospital during the period of the study who meet the inclusion criteria and consented to participate in the study. Demographic data, disease characteristics such as symptoms and signs and recent drug history were obtained from the patients and their hospital records as documented by the physician. The SF-36 questionnaire was administered once by interview to the participants to measure their HRQOL. Descriptive statistics was used in summarizing the demographic data and hypertension related histories of the participants. Multiple linear regression was used to model for the influence of socio demographic and clinical variables of the hypertensives on their HRQOL.
Human atherosclerotic carotid plaques (n = 29, 12 associated with symptoms) were removed by endarterectomy. Calpain activity and apoptosis were detected by performing immunohistochemical analysis and TUNEL assay on human carotid plaque sections. An antibody specific for calpain-proteolyzed alpha-fodrin was used on western blots.
COX activity staining of liver for light and electron microscopy, muscle stains, blue native gel electrophoresis and activity assays of respiratory chain proteins, their immunolocalisation, mitochondrial and nuclear DNA analysis.
The study, encompassing multiple sites, is based on a sample of 398 GPs, representative of the GP population in the Canadian province of Quebec. GPs were asked to answer a 143-item questionnaire on their socio-demographic and clinical practice profiles, patient characteristics, perceived inter-professional relationships and quality of care. Descriptive, bivariate and multivariate analyses were performed.
The survey was carried out using a self-administered standardised anonymous questionnaire given to all of the Vaccination Service employees in the Apulia Region.
The model consists of multiple compartments representing logical movement of a respiratory symptomatic (tuberculosis suspect) through the health system, including patient- and health system delays. Main outputs of the model are tuberculosis death rate and treatment outcome (i.e. full or partial cure). We quantified the model parameters for the Jogjakarta province context, using a two round Delphi survey with five Indonesian tuberculosis experts.
Differences in mean body mass index (BMI) and other anthropometric measures including weight, waist circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio were assessed by a general linear model in individuals categorized by INSIG2 rs7566605 genotype. Multivariable logistic regression was used to predict the risk of obesity (BMI &gt;or= 30 kg/m2).
To investigate the biological basis for these observations, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed using microarray data from 246 ER+ BC samples from women treated with adjuvant tamoxifen monotherapy. To create an in vitro model of growth factor (GF) signaling activation, MCF-7 cells were treated with heregulin (HRG), an HER3 ligand.
We cross-sectionally sampled individuals assisted by the public primary health care system (n = 768, 35-60 years old). Participants were interviewed by phone and screened about pain. They were then invited to be clinically assessed (304 accepted). Pain was estimated using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Fibromyalgia was assessed using the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), as well as screening for tender points using dolorimetry. Statistical analyses included Bayesian Statistics and the Kruskal-Wallis Anova test (significance level = 5%).
New items generated from qualitative interviews were combined with items from the RA-WIS to form a draft AS-WIS. Rasch analysis was used to examine the scaling properties of the AS-WIS using data generated through a postal survey. The scale was validated against a gold standard of expert assessment, a test-retest survey examined reliability.
We evaluated the following systems: Amended Aberdeen, Extended Wigglesworth; PSANZ-PDC, ReCoDe, Tulip and CODAC. Nine teams from 7 countries applied the classification systems to cohorts of stillbirths from their regions using 857 stillbirth cases. The main outcome measures were: the ability to retain the important information about the death using the InfoKeep rating; the ease of use according to the Ease rating (both measures used a five-point scale with a score &lt;2 considered unsatisfactory); inter-observer agreement and the proportion of unexplained stillbirths. A randomly selected subset of 100 stillbirths was used to assess inter-observer agreement.
The method uses a visual representation of the symptoms and diseases coded during a patient consultation according to the International Classification of Primary Care 2nd version (ICPC-2). The surveillance data are transformed into color-coded cells, ranging from white to red, reflecting the increasing frequency of observed signs. They are placed in a graphic reference frame mimicking body anatomy. Simple visual observation of color-change patterns over time, concerning a single code or a combination of codes, enables detection in the setting of interest.
We conducted a case-study based content analysis of legislative materials used in the development of six state workplace smoking laws, including written and spoken testimony and the text of proposed and passed bills and amendments. We coded testimony given before legislators for arguments used, and identified the institutional affiliations of presenters and their position on the legislation. We compared patterns in the arguments made in testimony to the relative strength of each state's final legislation.
A cross-sectional study was conducted in 10 junior high schools from April to June of 2008. A total of 2821 adolescents aged 14.06 +/- 0.93 years (8.9% of migrant workers vs. 91.1% of general residents) participated in the survey. A self-administrated questionnaire was used to collect information on knowledge, attitude, and behaviors associated with increased risk for HIV/STI.
Lung tidal volume, dynamic elastance, resistance, and pleural pressure were measured in a resistance and compliance system on mechanically-ventilated anesthestized young (14-28 day old) and adult (6-12 week old) cotton rats. Animals at the same age were infected with influenza virus, and breathing rates and other respiratory measurements were recorded using a whole body flow plethysmograph.
Observational data collection and follow-up of a cohort of older people undergoing brain magnetic resonance imaging after non-disabling complaints.
11 European centres.
639 non-disabled older patients (mean age 74.1 (SD 5.0), 45.1% men) in whom brain magnetic resonance imaging showed mild, moderate, or severe age related changes in white matter (Fazekas scale). Magnetic resonance imaging assessment also included cerebral infarcts and atrophy.
Transition from no disability (defined as a score of 0 or 1 on the instrumental activities of daily living scale) to disability (score &gt;/=2) or death over three year follow-up. Secondary outcomes were incident dementia and stroke.
Arterial pressure measurement and pulse wave velocity (PWV) recordings were performed in 12 student military divers before and after 15 weeks' training. The results were compared with the same investigations performed in 12 non-diver healthy subjects.
11 patients with McArdle disease (3 male, 8 female; age: 35.5 (SD 13.9) years, height: 166 (8) cm, body mass: 75.2 (13.1) kg) were recruited for the study. The patients walked initially at 0.42 m/s, increasing by 0.14 m/s per 3 min stage. Exercise was terminated when participants completed 3 minutes at 1.80 m/s or when a Borg CR10 pain scale rating of "4" was reached. Stages were separated by 60 s for capillary blood sampling for analysis of hGH and blood lactate concentration.
Participants (n = 12) were tested in three climbing conditions that were designed to invoke low, moderate and high physical and mental stress. Plasma cortisol concentrations were collected before and after climbing and participants reported subjective anxiety and self-confidence states for each climb.
Retrospective survey and prospective study.
During the preparation camps for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, all 123 referees pre-selected for the tournament completed a questionnaire on injuries and musculoskeletal complaints. During the tournament, the characteristics and consequences of all injuries and complaints incurred by the 63 officiating referees were documented.
Randomised cross-over study.
Biomechanical movement laboratory.
20 healthy subjects were included. One subject was excluded during data collection.
The subjects performed forward lunges before, during and 20 minutes after induction of experimental quadriceps muscle pain. Muscle pain was induced using hypertonic saline (5.8%) injected intramuscularly. Isotonic saline (0.9%) was used as control.
Three-dimensional movement analyses were performed and inverse dynamics were used to calculate joint kinematics and kinetics for ankle, knee and hip joints. Electromyographic (EMG) signals of the hamstrings and quadriceps muscles were recorded.
Systematic review.
Medline, Embase, CINAHL, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Allied and Complementary Medicine.
names and descriptors of the therapies and LE.
All human studies assessing the four therapies for LE.
114 subjects with symptoms of Achilles tendon pathology and 98 healthy controls were genotyped for MMP3 variants rs679620, rs591058 and rs650108.
Injury surveillance data, gathered over a 2 year period in professional football, cricket and rugby union to produce 335 diagnoses, were coded with both OSICS-8 and OSICS-10. Code-diagnosis agreement was assessed for OSICS-8 in terms of whether a diagnosis was codeable or noncodeable, and for OSICS-10 by evaluating the highest available OSICS-10 tier of coding. Eight clinicians coded a list of 20 diagnoses, comprising a range of pathologies to all gross anatomical regions, which were compared to assess inter-rater reliability.
Quasi-experimental, pretest-post-test, nonequivalent groups design.
Before the exercise protocol, 45 female and 30 male young amateur athletes completed computerized cognitive testing, symptom ratings and balance testing. The 15-minute cycle ergometry protocol, conducted at 90 revolutions/minute, was as follows: 0-2 minutes at 0 W tension, 2-5 minutes at 50 W, 5-8 minutes at 100 W, 8-11 minutes at 150 W and 11-14 minutes at 200 W tension followed by a 1-minute cooling-down period. After exercise, participants completed symptom ratings, balance testing and perceived exertion ratings. Self-reported symptoms were assessed using an abbreviated version of the Post-Concussion Scale.
Team physicians prospectively recorded individual player exposure and time loss injuries during 12 European Championships (men's EURO n = 1, men's Under-21 n = 2, men's Under-19 n = 3, men's Under-17 n = 3, women's Under-19 n = 3) from 2006 to 2008.
International football tournaments.
1594 men and 433 women.
Injury incidence.
Population based cohort study with follow-up over 35 years.
Municipality of Uppsala, Sweden.
2205 men aged 50 in 1970-3 who were reexamined at ages 60, 70, 77, and 82 years.
Total (all cause) mortality.
Children from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC) were asked to wear a uniaxial accelerometer for 7 days. Measures of counts per minute (cpm), minutes spent in moderate to vigorous activity (MVPA) and minutes of sedentary behaviour (msed) were derived from the accelerometer worn at age 12. Children were also examined, at age 10, using an autorefractor to estimate myopia. Social and parental factors were collected from pregnancy and physical measures of the child were recorded at age 12.
We obtained biopsy samples from the vastus lateralis muscle of 83 patients. Of the 44 patients with clinically diagnosed statin-associated myopathy, 29 were currently taking a statin, and 15 had discontinued statin therapy before the biopsy (minimal duration of discontinuation 3 weeks). We also included 19 patients who were taking statins and had no myopathy, and 20 patients who had never taken statins and had no myopathy. We classified the muscles as injured if 2% or more of the muscle fibres in a biopsy sample showed damage. Using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, we evaluated the expression levels of candidate genes potentially related to myocyte injury.
For these analyses, we used volume and expenditure data related to prescriptions for cardiovascular medications obtained from IMS Health Canada's CompuScript Audit database for the period 1996-2006. Here, we describe national and provincial patterns of utilization and expenditures for specified classes of cardiovascular medications.
In this pragmatic randomized trial, we randomly assigned adult primary care patients with type 2 diabetes to receive the intervention or usual care. The intervention involved shared access by the primary care provider and the patient to a Web-based, colour-coded diabetes tracker, which provided sequential monitoring values for 13 diabetes risk factors, their respective targets and brief, prioritized messages of advice. The primary outcome measure was a process composite score. Secondary outcomes included clinical composite scores, quality of life, continuity of care and usability. The outcome assessors were blinded to each patient's intervention status.
A total of 101 subjects were included in this study. Serum levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, C reactive protein, leptin, TGF-alpha, adiponectin and insulin were measured by ELISA. Data were logarithmically transformed for variables not normally distributed. Analysis of variance with post-hoc Bonferroni was applied to compare the data between the groups. Simple and partial correlation coefficients between the variables were determined and a stepwise multiple linear regression analysis was performed to determine the relationships between the variables of interest.
We describe a case of HCM with midventricular obstruction and apical aneurysm formation in 3 patients coming from a single family. This HCM pattern was detected by 2D-echocardiography and confirmed by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. A cardioverter defibrillator was implanted in one of the patients because of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia detected in 24-h Holter monitoring and an abrupt drop in systolic blood pressure during maximal exercise test. The defibrillator activated 8 months after implantation by suppression of a ventricular tachycardia providing anti-tachycardia pacing. The patient died due to refractory heart failure 2 years after initial evaluation. The rest of the patients are stable after a 2.5-y follow-up period.
Consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography during the previous 6 mo were recruited. Patients with major depression, bi-polar disorder, schizophrenia, or malignancy were excluded. Patients underwent dolorimetry for tender-point assessment and completed the fibromyalgia impact questionnaire (FIQ). Group A included patients with significant coronary pathology (n = 43), group B included patients with normal coronary arteries (n = 50), and group C included patients with normal controls (n = 51). A cardiological score incorporated the number of coronary arteries with significant pathology and left ventricular function. Chi-square or Fisher's exact test was used for categorical data and a one-way analysis of variance for continuous variables; a multivariate linear regression was performed to compare groups.
In this prospective observational study, angiographic and clinical 6-mo results of a carbon-coated stent for treatment of acute lesions in native coronary arteries were evaluated. Angiographic main outcome measures included in-stent late loss and binary restenosis rate. Major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) were defined as any death, Q-wave myocardial infarction (MI), and target lesion revascularization.
In 2004-2005 during standard follow-up at 6 mo after acute MI in 158 subjects, BNP was measured using an immunoenzymatic method. Of them, 126 patients had IVCD: 31, left bundle branch block (LBBB); 36, right bundle branch block (RBBB); 30, left anterior hemiblock (LAH); and 29, left posterior hemiblock (LPH). Thirty two patients with a previous MI, but without IVCD, served as controls, whereas 15 healthy subjects entered the comparative group.
The Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System database of New York State was used to retrieve cases of aortic dissection in persons &lt; or = 21 years old over a 10-year period. A retrospective analysis for risk or associated conditions was undertaken.
We performed a single institution retrospective review of medical records and analyses of echocardiographic findings in patients &lt; or = 45 years of age hospitalized between 2001 and 2004 who were discharged with a diagnosis of cardiomyopathy or heart failure. After exclusion of patients with coronary artery disease or severe cardiac valvular disease, the remaining patients were divided into 2 groups based on their abuse or non abuse of methamphetamine, as determined by the documented history in the medical records or urine toxicology testing.
From January 2004 to November 2006, 12 of 100 patients admitted with a diagnosis of PTE had an MRCT. Diagnosis of in-transit right-sided thrombi was made when a wormlike elongated mass was detected. The primary end point was comparison of the mortality rate of MRCT (+) patients with that of MRCT (-) patients for an average of 8 months of follow-up. The secondary end points were comparison of clinical and laboratory data between these 2 groups.
Seventeen patients with severe heart failure (ejection fraction 20%) were exposed to 3 types of load for a period of 10 seconds: 1) MVC-LEM with persistent physiologic breathing, 2) the Valsalva maneuver, and 3) a combination of MVC-LEM with the Valsalva maneuver. During each measurement, a continuous, time-synchronized record was taken of the electrocardiogram, and the pulmonary and systemic blood pressures.
Using one of the largest single-institutional cohorts, this study evaluated all patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) from 2002 through 2005. Analysis was restricted to patients receiving a single stent or undergoing balloon-only angioplasty in a single anatomic site. Small-vessel stents (SVS) were defined as 2.00 to 2.75 mm and large-vessel stents (LVS) as 3.00 to 4.00 mm in diameter.
The study included 80 consecutive patients with myocardial infarction (MI) treated in the Cardiology Ward of the Specialist Hospital in Radom, Poland, in 2005. Analyses were performed retrospectively. The patients were separated into 2 groups according to age. The group I study group consisted of 40 patients aged 75 or over (aged 75-95; mean 81 years) and the group II control group consisted of 40 patients aged below 75 years (aged 42-67; mean 60 years).
A total of 4778 CHD outpatients were enrolled from 52 centers in 6 Chinese cities from January 2006 to January 2007.
A total of 84 patients (51 males) who had undergone SES implantation for the treatment of native LMCA stenosis were enrolled. The patients were divided into 2 groups based on angiographic lesion location: those with significant stenosis in the ostium and/or body (group 1; n = 39) and those involving bifurcation (group 2; n = 45).
In a single center, prospective, double-blind placebo-controlled trial, 193 patients undergoing elective PCI (with or without stenting) for chronic stable angina and/or an abnormal stress test were randomized to receive 200 mcg of intracoronary nicardipine (n = 93) or saline solution (n = 100) prior to intervention. Cardiac enzyme levels were measured immediately and at 8 and 16 hours after the procedure. Major adverse clinical events (MACE) were assessed at 30 days and at 6 months.
Patients with STEMI within 12 hours after symptom onset were randomized to a facilitated PCI group (n = 19) or to a primary PCI group (n = 20). The primary endpoint was myocardial infarct size evaluated by the volume of delayed hyperenhancement on CE-MRI at 1 month after index procedure.
We performed an analysis in 865 indigent HF patients enrolled in a HF disease management program at the Chabert Medical Center in Louisiana. All subjects were classified as having MetS if they met three or more of the National Cholesterol Education Program criteria. Mortality was defined using the Social Security Death Index. We calculated the relative hazard (RH) of death for those patients with and without MetS.
Using a case-control study design, 57 patients with hypertensive AF (persistent AF: 32, paroxysmal AF: 25) were included into the study groups. A total of 32 age-matched patients with hypertension, but without AF were selected as the control group. The expressions of PPARgamma, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA in monocytes were detected by using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Interleukin-1 (IL-1) was measured by immunoenzymetric methods.
Using data collected in the multicenter Baxter POET database between 1996 and 2005, the study population included incident Canadian PD patients. Potential predictors of peritonitis were sought using a negative binomial model and an Andersen-Gill model. Study variables included age, gender, race, cause of renal disease, diabetes status, transfer from hemodialysis (HD), previous renal transplant, and continuous ambulatory PD (CAPD) versus automated PD (APD).
Hb variability was determined using 6 mo of "baseline" data between January 1, 2003, and October 31, 2005. A variety of definitions for Hb variability were examined to ensure consistency and robustness.
Ninety-eight patients who donated a kidney 5 to 40 years previously were stratified according to body mass index (BMI) at donation and evaluated for renal dysfunction and risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Patients who were from the 2005 through 2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey database; did not have renal disease; and were matched for age, gender, race, and BMI served as two-kidney control subjects.
A retrospective study was conducted in a referral center for patients with ADPKD in Paris, France. We identified using a computerized database all patients who had ADPKD and were admitted in the nephrology department of Hôpital Necker between January 1998 and August 2008 with likely or definite renal and/or hepatic cyst infection. Medical files of all included patients were reviewed.
This was a retrospective chart review of 44 patients with CKD stages 2 to 4, who were managed in the general nephrology clinic (1996-2001, n = 20) or the CRI clinic (2002-2007, n = 24) for 1 yr before starting renal replacement therapy (RRT). Laboratory parameters, growth, and dialysis access type at time of RRT were compared between the two cohorts.
Patients who initiated peritoneal dialysis at our center since January 1998 and had a baseline peritoneal equilibration test, measurement of dialysis adequacy, and 24-h dialysate Pcl were included. Demography, comorbidities, and biochemical data were prospectively collected. Follow-up was until death or the end of the period studied. Multivariate regression analysis identified factors that were associated with Pcl. A Cox proportional hazards model was used to identify factors that were associated with survival.
This prospective crossover study compared single-dose daptomycin (6 mg/kg, 30-min intravenous infusion) pharmacokinetics administered after HD versus during the last part of HD with high-permeability (HP) and low-permeability (LP) dialyzers to seven patients who had ESRD and were on thrice-weekly HD. Serial blood samples were collected to determine daptomycin serum concentrations and protein binding. Statistical analysis was done using linear mixed model analysis.
We conducted a retrospective analysis from the national Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients database that included 54,669 candidates who were older than 60 yr and listed in the United States for a solitary kidney transplant from 1995 through 2007. Using survival models, we estimated time to DDTx and mortality after candidate listing with and without patients initially listed as temporarily inactive (status 7).
The patient cohort, which started PD from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2007, was identified from the Scottish Renal Registry (n = 1238). Possible EPS cases were identified by the ten adult Scottish renal units. Patient records were examined to ensure cases met diagnostic criteria.
ALERT was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effect of fluvastatin on cardiovascular and renal outcomes in 2102 renal transplant recipients. Patients initially randomized to fluvastatin or placebo in the 5- to 6-yr trial were offered open-label fluvastatin in a 2-yr extension to the original study. The association between inflammation markers, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), and IL-6 on cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality was investigated.
We investigated the sensitivity of Medicare billing claims for clinically verified cardiovascular diagnoses (five categories) and procedures (four categories) in a novel database linking Medicare claims to electronic medical records of one transplant program. Cardiovascular events identified in medical records for 571 Medicare-insured transplant recipients in 1991 through 2002 served as reference measures.
Data from 211 consecutive patients attending a university teaching hospital for a standard PET who had multifrequency bioimpedance performance were analyzed to determine which factors affected net PET ultrafiltration volumes.
We obtained long-term (&gt; or =1 yr) follow-up on 294 patients who participated in a randomized, double-blind comparison of two prevention strategies for CIN (iopamidol versus iodixanol). A difference in the incidence of AEs between patients who had developed CIN and those who had not was performed using a chi(2) test and Poisson regression analysis. A similar statistical approach was used for the differences in AEs between those who received iopamidol or iodixanol. Multiple definitions of CIN were used to strengthen and validate the results and conclusions.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level III, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level I, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level III, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level III, diagnostic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, case series. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Level IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Between 2001 and 2003, a survey was conducted in 64 sites to analyze the outcome of the first diagnostic angiography in patients presenting with stable angina pectoris (STAR registry). The clinical characteristics, initial angiographic findings, therapeutic strategy and outcome within the first year were analyzed.
Between 05/1986 and 12/2007, 1,163 endocarditis patients were operated upon. Of these, 221 patients (n = 185 men, median age 55 years) underwent homograft ARR due to 99 cases of NVE (45%) and 122 of PVE (55%) aortic root endocarditis. Demographics, clinical differences, survival rates and predictors of early mortality were analyzed. Follow-up (mean 5.2 +/- 0.4 years, maximum 18.4 years) was completed in 96.8% with a total of 1,127 patient years.
After valve sparing surgery in bicuspid aortic valve, a significant aorto-left atrial fistula was diagnosed in a 72-year-old patient causing heart failure and catecholamine-dependency. Due to the critical hemodynamic state, percutaneous closure was performed with an AGA Amplatzer duct occluder. Secondary to this closure, a second fistula between the aortic root and the right atrium appeared which was closed during the same procedure implanting a second duct occluder beneath the first device.
The authors review data concerning the effects of corticosteroid synthesis inhibitors (CSIs) in the management of depressive disorders, present a hypothesis as to their possible mechanisms of action based on recent data suggesting synergistic effects of glucocorticoids on extrahypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), and consider alternative hypotheses. Published reports evaluating the efficacy of CSIs in treating depression are reviewed and presented in light of recent findings regarding actions of glucocorticoids on the central CRH system.
To investigate the mean remission time and the predictors associated with its duration; we performed a large retrospective, naturalistic study with 204 patients who underwent treatment with rTMS. During the periods from 2000 to 2006, we identified and collected the data on 204 patients who underwent rTMS treatment for major depression and who remitted their depression (defined as Hamilton Depression Rating Scores less or equal to 7). Patients were followed up to 6 months after this therapy.
Forty-six patients with panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder were assigned to either MBCT or an anxiety disorder education (ADE) program for a period of 8 weeks. The Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R) were used to assess the patients at 0 week and after the two programs had been running for 2, 4, and 8 weeks.
Collaborative Psychiatric Epidemiology Surveys (CPES) data were analyzed to calculate nationally representative estimates of Latino and non-Latino White adults antidepressant use.
The 48 coterminous United States was the setting.
Household residents aged 18 years and older (N=9,250).
We compared the demographic, clinical, and personality characteristics of patients (N=256) with major depressive disorder (MDD) receiving antidepressant medication or interpersonal therapy as part of an RCT investigation (n=105) versus in a clinic (n=151). The RCT and clinic protocols were identical with the exception of recruitment procedures (advertisement versus physician referral) and assignment to treatment (randomized versus nonrandomized).
Citalopram was delivered using measurement-based care and flexible dosing with the aim of achieving symptom remission. Symptom and side effect ratings were obtained at each treatment visit.
Worsened depression was defined as an exit score &gt;or=3 points above the pretreatment (baseline) score on the 16-item QIDS-SR. Baseline sociodemographic, clinical, and treatment characteristics were examined for association with worsened depression.
A retrospective chart review was conducted on 11 treated patients between the ages of 6 and 17, with DSM-IV TTM.
50 patients with MDD received either STPP or FLX treatment for 16 weeks. The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) was the outcome measure completed at baseline and in the follow-ups at 4- and 12-months. Patients completed the Psychological Mindedness Scale (PMS) and the Defense Style Questionnaire at the baseline.
Forty adult outpatients who met the DSM-IV-TR criteria for major depression participated in the trial. Patients have a baseline Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression score of at least 18. Patients were allocated in a random fashion: 20 to fluoxetine 40 mg/day plus celecoxib 400 mg/day (200 mg bid) (morning and evening) and 20 to fluoxetine 40 mg/day plus placebo. Patients were assessed by a psychiatrist at baseline and after 1, 2, 4, and 6 weeks after the medication started.
Medline, PsycInfo, SciSearch, SocScisearch, Cinhal, Embase, and the Cochrane library were searched. Bibliographies of relevant book chapters and review articles and information from colleagues with expertise in anxiety were also a source of information. The search produced more than a thousand citations. Only eight studies met inclusion criteria: follow-up of a cohort of treated anxious youth for more than 2 years.
Thirty-two clients diagnosed with hoarding participated in five groups. Four groups met once weekly for 2 hour over 16 weeks (n=27) and one group met for 20 weeks (n=5). All participants had two individual 90-min home sessions. Self-report assessments were completed at baseline, mid-treatment, and post-treatment about hoarding behavior and related symptoms (e.g., depression). The sample was predominantly female, White, highly educated, unemployed, and not partnered/married; mean age was 53. A majority was diagnosed with major depressive disorder and obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.
Outpatients with nonpsychotic major depressive disorder treated for up to 14 weeks with citalopram in the first step of the Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) study were divided by household incomes of &lt;$20,000, $20,000-&lt;$40,000, and &gt;or=$40,000. Attrition rates and sociodemographic and clinical correlates of attrition were identified for each group.
A system dynamics methodology was used to develop a comprehensive causal simulator of the U.S. population and give proof of principle that entire portfolios of present and future technologies can be evaluated for direct and indirect impacts. An explicit semiquantitative methodology was used for surveying, prioritizing, and grouping C&amp;Cs, patient subgroups, and technologies, utilizing diverse publicly available clinical literature.
Individuals with type 2 diabetes who use insulin, recruited from a general and chronic illness panel, participated in a web-based survey that included questions about demographics, self-reported diagnoses and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), current IDS used, insulin therapy attitudes, current IDS features, and satisfaction with IDS. Univariate analyses identified variables associated with IDS satisfaction (P &lt; 0.05); those variables were entered into stepwise linear regression analyses with IDS satisfaction as the dependent variable.
Data were collected at the clinic over a 12-month period from February 2007 at 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month intervals. The clinic is jointly led by a consultant diabetologist and a diabetes specialist nurse within the secondary care setting.
We conducted a 1-year controlled parallel-group trial comparing patients randomized (1) to an intervention group, assigned to a teleassistance system using real-time transmission of blood glucose results, with immediate reply when necessary, and telephone consultations, or (2) to a control group, being regularly followed-up at their healthcare center. Study subjects were type 2 diabetes patients &gt;30 years of age followed in the primary care setting.
A population-based study examined all Ontario, Canada residents &gt; or = 66 years old who received a first prescription for insulin between 1998 and 2006 (n = 47,810). Associations between demographic/clinical factors and the use of pen devices for insulin delivery were determined.
In this study, the influence of in vitro transfection conditions on polyplexes constructed of polyethyleneimine (PEI) and plasmid DNA (pDNA) on the transfection efficiency was investigated by varying the transfection medium, the pDNA dose, and the amines of polycation/phosphates of pDNA (N/P) ratio.
Seven adult female vervet (Chlorocebus aethiops) monkeys were maintained on an atherogenic Western diet. They were divided into two groups: four with NGT and three with IGT. Each subject underwent [18F]FBT PET twice: first, a baseline PET under fasting conditions; and second, PET under fasting conditions but after intravenous infusion of dextrose solution. Quantitative analysis of pancreatic uptake at 60 min post-injection was performed.
Glucose profiles of 27 Japanese people were measured for 4 days by using continuous glucose monitoring. A 75-g OGTT was conducted on the second day, and 24 subjects diagnosed with NGT by a 75-g OGTT were enrolled. The subjects were monitored for their postprandial glucose profile in their ordinary daily life on the third day.
Forty-five subjects whose average age was 31.2 +/- 8.3 years (younger group), 62.4 +/- 9.6 years (older group), and 61.8 +/- 11.3 years (diabetes group) were divided into three groups of 15 subjects. Subjects were exposed to environmental temperatures of 15 degrees C, 23 degrees C, or 32 degrees C for 30 min. During this period of time, sweat rate, skin blood flow, the electrodermal skin response, and skin moisture were measured.
A clinic-based colorectal frozen tumor bank at a single institution was queried for colon and rectal adenocarcinomas. Tumor DNA was extracted and analyzed for microsatellite instability, methylation, and mutations in the oncogenes KRAS and BRAF. Patient demographics, tumor characteristics, and clinical outcomes were compared.
Data were extracted from the Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland Colorectal Cancer Database (2000-2005). Social deprivation was assessed by using the Index of Multiple Deprivation (2004) score. Logistic regression was performed to identify independent predictors of nonrestorative surgery.
Using data from the linked Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare database, we analyzed patients with Stage II or III rectal cancer who received adjuvant chemotherapy after curative rectal cancer surgery between 1991 and 2002. Logistic and Cox regressions were performed to assess determinants of adjuvant chemotherapy delays and outcomes in two cohorts: patients with access to medical oncology care because of prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy (Group A) and patients without such access (Group B). Length of postoperative hospital stay served as the main proxy for postsurgical recovery.
Between 1994 and 2006, 107 consecutive patients with low rectal cancer had curative intersphincteric resection, categorized as total, subtotal, or partial resection of the internal anal sphincter.
We performed a systematic review by use of multiple health care databases and gray literature, following predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria to determine the clinical, endoscopic, and pathologic features of diverticular-associated colitis, and recurrence rates following medical and surgical treatment.
Fifty-two patients who were candidates for curative colon resection were randomly assigned to laparoscopic or open surgery and, in a double-blind design, assigned to receive methylprednisolone (n = 26) or placebo (n = 26). Pulmonary function, postoperative pain, C-reactive protein, interleukins 6 and 8, and tumor necrosis factor alpha were analyzed, as was patient outcome.
Patients studied at five years were contacted after ten years and asked to fill out the Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life Scale, the Fecal Incontinence Severity Index, and the Bristol Stool Form Scale.
This study was a case-match study of 25 women undergoing overlapping anal sphincter repair from 1996 through 2003. Functional outcome was assessed using validated scoring systems. For each case, two controls matched for age and parity were assessed.
Thirty-four patients (5 males, 29 females; median age, 61 years; range, 34 to 80) were injected with 4 x 1 ml of NASHA Dx gel, just above the dentate line in the submucosal layer. The primary end point was change in the number of incontinence episodes and a treatment response was defined as a 50 percent reduction compared with pretreatment. All patients were followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months.
From 1996 to 2007, 353 consecutive rectal adenomas were evaluated according to a standard protocol. Transanal endoscopic microsurgery was intended in all rectal adenomas.
A tissue microarray including 427 colon cancers was evaluated for 14 immunohistochemical protein markers. Complete data on pT, pN, tumor grade, tumor border configuration, vascular invasion, and tumor diameter were available. Classification and regression tree analysis was performed.
Fifty-eight patients (35 male, 23 female) with primary rectal cancer who had suitable high-resolution staging pelvic magnetic resonance images between November 2002 and July 2004 were studied. Ten variables of mesorectal morphology were measured on axial images at the ischial spines. The associations between morphologic variables and gender and body mass index were examined.
A randomly selected sample of patients with HIV-infection receiving follow-up care in the infectious diseases department of Bichat University Hospital was invited to participate in a systematic screening program consisting of anal examination with anoscopy and a standardized questionnaire.
Patients with distal rectal cancer managed by neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and available pretreatment and postchemoradiotherapy levels of CEA were eligible for the study. Outcomes studied included final disease stage, relapse, and survival, and these were compared according to initial CEA level, post-chemoradiotherapy CEA level, and the reduction in CEA.
The records of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who were heavily pretreated with irinotecan and oxaliplatin and subsequently received cetuximab plus irinotecan-based therapy were reviewed. Differences in the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor detected by the PharmDx antibody and the clone H11 antibody in these patients were compared.
Nine patients underwent pancreatic resection for metastatic colorectal cancer between January 1980 and December 2006. The primary cancers were colon (n = 7) and rectal carcinoma (n = 2). The median interval between primary treatment and detection of pancreatic metastases was 32.5 months. In three cases pancreatic metastases were synchronous with the primary tumor.
Thirteen patients with adenomatous polyposis were examined by total colonoscopy using an instrument that incorporated both narrow-band and autofluorescence imaging. Colonoscopic images were obtained using white light colonoscopy, autofluorescence imaging, narrow-band imaging, and chromoendoscopy. All images were captured at equivalent angles and distances from the colorectal mucosa.
Patients with adenomas and colorectal cancer undergoing resection were assessed. Clinical and pathologic data and preoperative blood samples were collected. Plasma platelet-derived growth factor-BB levels (median, 95 percent confidence interval for median) were determined and the Kruskal-Wallis test and Mann-Whitney U test were used for analysis.
An S-type incision together with a bilateral gluteus maximus fascia advancing flap was applied on 278 (89 percent) patients, who did not have extensive gluteal involvement, of the 312 patients who had pilonidal sinus disease, between January 1997 and January 2007. No drainage was performed on any patient.
A questionnaire was mailed to all practicing fellows of The American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons in North America. Surgeons were asked to describe their typical practice for a number of clinical scenarios.
A wide range of serum markers involved in the processes of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis was measured in a group of 33 patients with Cushing's syndrome and 31 healthy controls. No participant was taking medication which could influence the result or had known diseases, except hypertension and diabetes, which could affect blood coagulation or fibrinolysis parameters.
We retrospectively analyzed multiple data sources, including In-Training Examination scores, patient visit profiles, resident demographics, and graduate surveys.
A 17-item survey focusing on program demographics, current curriculum, priority of elder abuse education, clinical and didactic experiences, and triage resources was mailed to directors of all Michigan primary care residencies approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.
Teaching methods included the use of interactive lectures, an audience response system, and small-group workshops taught by medical and dental educators. The curriculum was based on the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine (STFM) Smiles for Life National Oral Health Curriculum. Students were given pretests and posttests, including a 6-month follow-up test.
A total of 350 subjects ? 12 years of age received either a standard or enhanced physician visit as part of a randomized controlled trial. Enhanced visits emphasized empathy on the part of the physician. The patient-scored Consultation and Relational Empathy (CARE) questionnaire assessed practitioner-patient interaction, especially empathy. Cold severity and duration were assessed from twice-daily symptom reports. Nasal wash was performed to measure the immune cytokine interleukin-8 (IL-8).
A total of 846 obese patients of 37 family physicians were randomly assigned to either have a patient's BMI chart prompt placed in their electronic medical record (intervention group) or not have a BMI prompt (comparison group) placed in the record. We then examined patient medical records for evidence of an obesity diagnosis and referral for specific obesity treatments. We also measured whether the presence of comorbidities in obese patients influenced the likelihood of diagnoses and treatments by the physicians.
This study explored the experiences of the 30 participants in the project. Semi-structured interviews were conducted. The analysis was both iterative and interpretive.
Five study groups were prospectively studied. Group 1: 9 patients not undergoing IPC; Group 2; six patients undergoing IPC 1 hour/thrice-a-day/4 months; Group 3: six patients undergoing IPC 2 hours/once-a-day/4 months; Group 4; six patients undergoing IPC 1 hour/thrice-a-day/2 months; Group 5: six patients undergoing IPC 2 hours/once-a-day/2 months.
We describe 3 cases of kit-positive GISTs of the small intestine (SISTs), complicated and emergency surgically treated: case 1--53 years, female, with small bowel obstruction and concomitant acute intestinal bleeding; case 2--71 years, male, with NF-1 and acute intestinal bleeding; case 3--47 years, male, with perforation of the Treitz tract. The first two cases have been treated with intestinal resection and immediate mechanical anastomosis; the third one with resection of the pedunculated tumor at its base, where is situated the perforation too.
Ninety patients underwent quadrantectomy or mastectomy with level I/II axillary lymphadenectomy; a suction drain was fitted in all patients. Fibrin glue spray were applied to the axillary fossa in 45 patients; the other 45 patients were treated conventionally.
Patients with III-IV grade haemorrhoids and chronic posterior anal fissures has been eligible for this study while were excluded patients with history of allergic reaction or pharmacological hypersensibility to naropine, propofol o similar drugs. All patients (group A) were submitted to general anaesthesia associated with loco-regional anaesthesia, Control patients (group B) underwent spinal anaesthesia. At the end of all surgery procedure, it has been evaluated the presence of early and late complications according to our classification recently proposed.
91 items were field tested by telephone interviews with 179 English-speaking and 21 monolingual Spanish-speaking caregivers of persons with dementia. Repeat interviews were conducted with 71 caregivers. Administration time, scale score distributions, item-scale correlations, reliability, and associations of scales with patient and caregiver demographic and caregiving characteristics were estimated. Structure of associations among scales was examined using exploratory factor analysis.
We report a case of simultaneous injury of right external iliac artery and vein by a needle carrier that was inserted from the suprapubic area down to the vaginal lumen during anterior vaginal wall sling procedure.
Women attending urogynaecology outpatient clinics were examined in the left lateral position using a digital examination and POP-Q. This was repeated separately by a second blinded clinician. The inter-observer agreement was calculated using the Cohen's kappa coefficient. The POP-Q examination was then performed with a woman lying in dorsal lithotomy position. The POP-Q findings in the two positions were compared.
Women presenting to a university-based urogynecology clinic for POP (n = 107) completed a questionnaire including questions about how and when their prolapse was discovered. A urogynecologic examination including the pelvic organ prolapse quantification (POP-Q) was also performed.
We reviewed charts of women who underwent multichannel urodynamic testing for lower urinary tract symptoms and recorded pain levels using a validated visual analog pain scale of 0-10 before, during, and 1.5 h after the test.
In a retrospective observational study, we reviewed the records of 425 women who had attended a urogynecological unit for independent flowmetry, multichannel urodynamic testing, and 4D pelvic floor ultrasound.
We conducted a cross-sectional, comparative study with a case-control design. One thousand three hundred eighty-one women (aged 20-87 years) attending six Primary Healthcare Centers in Turkey were enrolled in this study, after giving their informed consent. Subjects were dichotomized into cases and controls according to presence of diabetes mellitus (DM) and were matched for the confounding factors age, body mass index (BMI), and reproductive history.
We recruited female workers in an industrial park who received an annual health examination between August 1 and September 31, 2003. From each participant, we collected a urine sample and obtained information through a questionnaire.
Doctors repaired OASIS after attending a training workshop. The external anal sphincter was repaired by the end-to-end technique when partially divided and the overlap method when completely divided. Endoanal ultrasound was performed prior to suturing and 7 weeks later. A validated bowel symptom questionnaire was completed prior to delivery, at 7 weeks postpartum, and at 1 year postpartum.
The case notes of 300 patients attending the UTC in a university hospital between January 2006 and November 2007 were randomly selected for review.
Using an Internet survey, 1,134 members of the American Urogynecological Society (AUGS) were contacted in May 2008 and questioned regarding their practice patterns to prevent de novo stress incontinence after sacrocolpopexy.
A cross-sectional study was performed on a general population of 2,921 women (aged 45-85 years). Questionnaires were filled in by 1,397 women, and 800 were selected at random to undergo vaginal examination for POP Quantification and PF muscle function assessment. Chi-square tests, Student's t test and multivariate logistic regression were performed (P &lt; 0.05).
This is a retrospective review of 127 cases of transvaginal repair of POP using synthetic mesh.
We constructed a decision tree model to evaluate risks and benefits of prophylactic antibiotics during CISC for voiding dysfunction after prolapse/incontinence surgery. The model randomized women requiring CISC to prophylactic antibiotics or no prophylaxis. Probabilities for UTI after CISC with or without prophylactic antibiotics, sequelae from antibiotic use or UTI, and utility values were obtained from published literature and practice quality assurance reviews. Main outcome was probability of experiencing no UTI or adverse event.
We analyzed 22 clinical records of women diagnosed with urethral diverticula. We collected clinical, surgical, and pathological data. Pathological re-assessment was performed using hematoxylin-eosin and van Gieson stains.
Patients were separated in a randomized way. Twenty-one patients were submitted to the operatory correction by the transobturatory sling technique, whereas 20 patients were operated by the retropubic sling technique. All patients were submitted to complete physical exam and urodynamic test. The "T" test and the Mann-Whitney U test were applied to establish comparisons between the two groups. Patients were followed-up for 12 months.
Vaginal tissues were sampled in women with (n = 11) or without (n = 11) vaginal wall prolapse. Caldesmon messenger RNA (mRNA) expression was assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry and digital image analysis were used to determine caldesmon protein expression in the histologic sections.
We conducted a study with six human volunteers deliberately exposed to an entire dose of 25 mg MTX solution on their skin for 30 min. Serum levels of MTX were measured at baseline, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 h as well as serum homocysteine at baseline and 24 h after clinical exposure. Twenty-four-hour urinary excretion of MTX and possible local or systemic signs of toxicity were also recorded.
A retrospective audit of 25 consecutive patients with cystic fibrosis who underwent bilateral sequential single-lung transplantation between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2005 at a tertiary referral hospital was carried out.
A set of clinical process indicators was developed using a structured process. The indicator set was implemented between January 2006 and December 2006, using strategies based on evidence about effectiveness and local contextual factors. Evaluation included a structured survey of general medical staff to assess awareness and attitudes towards the programme and qualitative assessment of barriers to implementation. Impact on documentation of adherence to clinical indicators was assessed by auditing a random sample of medical records before (2003-2005) and after (2006) implementation.
A literature search was undertaken to identify indicator sets. Indicators were included if they related to hospital care and were clearly being collected and reported to an external body. A two-person independent review was undertaken to classify indicators according to aspects of care provision (structure, process or outcome), dimensions of quality (safety, effectiveness, efficiency, timeliness, patient-centredness and equity), and domain of application (hospital-wide, surgical and non-surgical clinical specialities).
The study included 97 patients who had undergone concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and aortic valve replacement at Regions Hospital, University of Minnesota Medical School from January 2006 to December 2008. All data were collected retrospectively after reviewing electronic medical records. Inotropic support was defined as the use of dopamine [greater than or equal to] 5 ug/kg/min; any dose of epinephrine, norepinephrine, dobutamine, and milrinone at the separation from cardiopulmonary bypass.
All patients who had attended general and specialist outpatient clinics of Tung Wah Hospital between September 1, 2007 and September 30, 2007 and received low-dose aspirin therapy were included in the study. Data were collected through retrospective chart review and recorded on a standardized data collection form. Univariate analysis was performed using chi2 tests for discrete variables. Factors that might be associated with prescription of GPD with low-dose aspirin were assessed in multiple logistic regression models.
A total of 1,434 samples collected for HbA1c measurement at Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital in southern Taiwan in March 2008 were submitted for Hb variant analysis by Primus CLC-385. HbA1c measurements were obtained using ion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) (Tosoh HLC-723 G7) for routine analysis. Patients identified with Hb variants were recalled for boronate-affinity HPLC analysis. The values of estimated average glucose (eAG) were converted from HbA1c. Values of eAG-FPG, calculated by eAG minus fasting plasma glucose (FPG), were compared to estimate the accuracy of HbA1c measurement in patients with Hb variants.
Compositions including biochemical components and tumor markers were determined in human AF, umbilical cord serum (UCS) and maternal serum (MS) from the same subject in the range of 15-42 weeks of gestation.
Bovine enamel samples were submitted to a cyclic de- and remineralisation for 3 days. Each day, the samples were exposed for 120 min to pooled human saliva and subsequently treated with one of the fluoride solutions for 3 min: amine fluoride (AmF, 0.5% and 1% F(-)), sodium fluoride (NaF, 0.5% and 1% F(-)), each at pH 3.9 and 7.0, and stannous fluoride (SnF(2), 0.5% and 1% F(-)), at pH: 3.9. Additionally, two groups were treated with fluoride-free placebo solutions (pH: 3.9 and 7.0) and one group served as control (no fluoridation). Ten specimens each group were inserted in a so-called artificial mouth and eroded six times daily with hydrochloric acid (pH 2.6) for 90 s each intermitted by exposure to artificial saliva (1h). After 3 days, enamel loss was analyzed profilometrically and evaluated statistically by ANOVA.
Nanoindentation, Raman spectroscopes, and SEM were employed to compare the inner and outer regions of the cross-sectioned enamel from different angles, namely mechanical properties such as elastic modulus and hardness, indentation energy absorption ability, indentation creep ability, indentation residual stress distribution pattern, compositional differences, and microstructural differences.
Resin composites and shades used in this study were submicron-filled Estelite Sigma (Sigma: Inc, A2, A3, B3, C2, OA2, OA3) and nanofilled Filtek Supreme XT (XT: Clear, A2E, A2B, A3B, C2B, A2D, A3D). Resin disks of 2mm in thickness and final polish with 2400-grit silicon carbide paper were stored in 100% relative humidity. One-week and 1-year after curing, the colors of the composite disks were measured with a spectrophotometer in SCI and SCE modes.
Human premolar dentin was treated with one of the two self-etching adhesive systems, Clearfil SE Bond, Clearfil Protect Bond or an acid-etching adhesive system, Single Bond. The bonded interface was exposed to an artificial demineralizing solution (pH 4.5) for 90 min and then 5% sodium hypochlorite for 20 min. Transmission electron microscopic observation was performed at the adhesive-dentin interface. The width of the reinforced zone was measured and data were analyzed with univariate analysis of variance under general linear model. In order to identify type of crystallites in the reinforced zone selected area electron diffraction was performed.
One-dimensional (1)H STRAFI-MRI images (projections along an axis, profiles) were acquired from the adhesive with and without Aurora, before and after solvent removal. Specimens were observed after the irradiation period recommended by the manufacturers and new profiles were recorded. Extent of polymerization and volumetric contraction were obtained by subtracting the profile of the cured adhesive from the profile of the liquid; the profiles were previously normalized using an external reference signal and the highest magnetization intensity recorded from the cured adhesive, respectively. Data were obtained in the presence of oxygen. Solvent evaporation was measured by gravimetry.
30 human premolars were endodontically prepared and obturated with an epoxy sealer and vertically condensed gutta-percha. Thereafter the entire clinical crown was removed. The teeth were randomly assigned to five different composite core groups, all using the same fiber reinforced radicular post (DT White). Gr. 1: Optibond solo plus/Nexus II/Prodigy; Gr. 2: Scotchbond 1/Rely X Arc/Filtek P60; Gr. 3: EBS multi/Compolute applicap/Pertac II; Gr. 4: ART Bond/Parapost cement/Synergy; Gr. 5: Superbond C&amp;B catalyst S+polymer/Metafil CX. Polyvinyl-siloxane impressions of the external margins of the cores were readied before and after 1,200,000 cycles of mechanical loading with max. 100 N at 45 degrees to the longitudinal axis of the tooth. After loading, 5 of the 6 samples of each group were cut longitudinally and the sixth sample was cut transversally to be able to take replicas for evaluation of internal adaptation after loading.
One hundred and eighty onlays of different thicknesses (2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm) were luted with three different composites: two dual-curing cements (Variolink II and Calibra) and a light-curing composite (Venus). The same halogen lamp was used with three different modalities selected to provide a constant quantity of energy. The time/power combinations tested were 400 mW/cm(2) for 120 s, 800 mW/cm(2) for 60s and 1200 mW/cm(2) for 40 s. The light-curing composite was employed at room temperature and after preheating at 54 degrees C. Each sample was examined in three positions using the Micro-Raman Dilor HR LabRam spectrometer to evaluate the polymer conversion degree. The data were analysed using analysis of variance and the Student-Newman-Keuls test (p=0.05).
80 vital molars of 25 patients were restored with all-ceramic PCRs (40 IPS e.max Press*[IP] and 40 ProCAD*[PC]). IP-PCRs were heat pressed following the lost-wax method. PC-PCRs were fabricated with Cerec 3** and Cerec InLab** CAD/CAM system (**Sirona Dental Systems, Bensheim, Germany). All PCRs were adhesively luted with a light-polymerizing composite (Syntac*/Tetric*) (*Ivoclar Vivadent, Schaan, Liechtenstein). Clinical reevaluations were performed at baseline and 13, 25, and 36 months after insertion of the PCRs according to the modified United States Public Health Services (USPHS) criteria. Absolute failures were demonstrated by Kaplan-Meier survival rate.
Thirty-nine, endodontically treated, single canal, extracted human bicuspids were selected. Translucent fiber posts (RelyX Fiber Post) were luted into the root canal using three resinous luting systems (n=13). Dual-curing technique (DC): the specimens were treated with Excite DSC and RelyX ARC, which were light-cured simultaneously through the post for 60s. Self-adhesive dual-curing technique (SADC): the specimens were treated with RelyX Unicem, which was light-cured through the post for 60s. Light-curing technique (LC): the specimens were treated with Excite DSC and Tetric Flow, which were simultaneously light-cured through the post for 60s. The specimens were transversally sectioned into six slices in order to perform the push-out test. Data were analyzed by two-way ANOVA followed by the Tukey-Kramer test for post-hoc comparisons at alpha=0.05.
RT-PCR, real time RT-PCR and Western blot were used to examine the expression of CENP-H in tongue cancer cell lines and biopsies. CENP-H protein level in paraffin-embedded tongue cancer tissues were tested by immunohistochemical staining and undergone statistical analysis. CENP-H-knockdown stable cell line was established by infecting cells with a retroviral vector pSuper-retro-CENP-H-siRNA. The biological function of CENP-H was tested by MTT assay, colony formation assay, and Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation assay.
The study design was a retrospective case analysis. In 508 patients who underwent LC in a tertiary referral university hospital from 1996 through 2007, difficult cholecystectomy was anticipated in 26 patients due to possibly aberrant biliary anatomy (four patients), unclear cystic duct anatomy during magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and/or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) (three patients), and acute cholecystitis (19 patients). An ENBD was inserted during ERCP prior to LC for cholangiography (ENBDC) to facilitate safe dissection during LC. Prevalence of biliary complications was assessed as the main outcome measurement.
Of 116 patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma who underwent surgery, 62 (43 men and 19 women, median age 69 years) underwent preoperative ENBD. After classification of lesions according to Bismuth-Corlette (B-C) criteria, we evaluated efficacy and safety with respect to B-C type.
We focused on a new mode of sonogram, real-time elastography, which can show tissue elasticity on images, and express the elasticity numerically. The elastic ratio of the liver for the intercostal muscle for each patient was calculated preoperatively, using the sonography device. The liver fibrosis stages were finally determined in the operative specimens from 41 patients. We examined the correlation between the elastic ratio and the histological fibrosis stage.
Between January 2008 and October 2008, 7 patients underwent one-stage laparoscopic resection for primary colorectal cancer combined with laparoscopic or robot-assisted liver resection.
Forty-seven male Wistar albino rats were randomized into seven experimental groups. In group I, animals were sham-operated (n = 5). In groups II, III, IV, IIepo, IIIepo, and IVepo, AP was induced by sodium taurodeoxycholate treatment (n = 7). In groups II, III, and IV, 1 ml normal saline and in groups IIepo, IIIepo, and IVepo, 1000 U/kg body weight erythropoietin (EPO) was administered intramuscularly immediately after the induction of AP. Animals were killed at 24, 48, and 72 h postoperatively. Histopathological and biochemical evaluations were performed.
At the 34th Annual Meeting of the Japanese Society of Pancreatic Surgery in 2007, questionnaires were distributed regarding the use of (neo-) adjuvant chemo(radio)therapy for pancreatic carcinoma between 2001 and 2005.
We started the LDLT program in 1991 and from that year up to now (2008) 11 patients have received an ABO-incompatible graft.
Of 64 patients who underwent right-sided hepatectomy for hilar biliary cancer, the portal bifurcation was routinely resected by the above new procedure in 25 patients, based on preoperative imaging diagnoses. Perioperative outcomes were compared with those in patients who underwent conventional portal reconstruction (n = 18) and with those in patients who had preservation of the portal bifurcation (n = 21).
Micrometastases around liver metastases were examined microscopically in 31 metastatic liver tumor specimens resected from 17 patients who had undergone hepatic resection for liver metastases from gastric cancer. E-cadherin and MMP-7 expression in the primary gastric tumor, the liver metastases, and the micrometastases were examined immunohistochemically.
Obstructive jaundice was induced in rats by the ligation and division of the common bile duct. Four days after the operation, intestinal anastomosis was performed, and either calcitonin gene-related peptide or 0.9% NaCl was administered intraperitoneally to these jaundiced rats and controls. The concentrations of serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and triglyceride levels of all rats were measured, and healing of the anastomosis was evaluated by measuring the bursting pressure and hydroxyproline content on the 7th postoperative day.
We analyzed plasma ICG concentration data at 5, 10, and 15 min after intravenous injection of 0.5 mg/kg of ICG and 17 kinds of patient-specific covariates in 1,276 patients using NONMEM (GloboMax LLC, Ellicott City, MD) for population pharmacokinetic modeling. The population models designed were externally validated on another dataset of 1,629 patients.
The subjects of this retrospective study were 42 patients with large HCC. Various prognostic factors were assessed by multivariate analysis. The disease state was staged by the above four staging systems. The accuracy of prediction of 1-year, 3-year and 5-year mortality for each system was evaluated by the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve.
Seven primary undifferentiated carcinomas of the pancreas (from three male and four female patients with a mean age of 59 years) were analyzed. Histopathological evaluation was based on the WHO diagnostic criteria. Pancreatic juice cytology was performed and evaluated in two patients.
Living-donor liver transplantation was performed at Mie University Hospital between March 2002 and December 2007; there were 8 patients with rejection (4 with acute cellular rejection and 4 with chronic rejection) and 32 patients without rejection. Liver biopsy tissue was immunostained with an anti-TF antibody, and assessed for SEC damage. In addition, total RNA was extracted from liver biopsy tissue and tested for TF mRNA expression by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
One hundred and eighty-six paraffin-embedded specimens from 15 T2 GC patients were reviewed.
Patients diagnosed with spontaneous ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma treated with TAE were retrospectively studied. Hospital records were reviewed and data were collected and analyzed from the years 2000-2006. A total of 62 patients who had been diagnosed with spontaneous ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma were managed in our hospital during this period.
Our study included 172 consecutive patients who had major liver resection with selective hepatic vascular exclusion and sharp transection of the liver parenchyma. An intraoperative maneuver (5 s occlusion of the hepatic vein) was applied in an alternating way, and the patients were assigned to two groups: Cohort A (n = 86), that was granted the maneuver, and Cohort B (n = 86), that was used as a control group.
We analyzed initial results from the viewpoint of operative techniques of laparoscopic liver resection in our series. Laparoscopic liver resections have been successfully performed by the application of automatic suturing devices and the radiofrequency method.
A questionnaire survey was conducted at 26 hospitals to determine the operative procedures, rates of conversion to open surgery, and morbidity rates in patients who had undergone laparoscopic hepatectomy and endoscopic ablation therapy.
Based on a large review of the literature as well as on our personal experience the authors define clearly: the feasibility and the effectiveness of LLS 2 and 3.
Studies about LLR published before September 2008 were identified and their results summarized.
One hundred patients with CRT implants and suitable baseline echocardiograms were identified. Longitudinal rotation was assessed in the apical 4-chamber view by speckle-tracking techniques and myocardial systolic velocities for basal septum, and lateral LV were analyzed from tissue Doppler images. The quartiles of LR distribution were analyzed for differences in their systolic velocities. Correlation between measurements and reduction in LV end-systolic volume (ESV) at follow-up was performed.
Echocardiograms in 1,591 patients with asymptomatic AS (67 +/- 10 years, 51% hypertensive) at baseline in the SEAS (Simvastatin Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis) study evaluating placebo-controlled combined simvastatin and ezetimibe treatment in AS were used to assess LV global load as valvuloarterial impedance and LV myocardial function as stress-corrected midwall shortening. The study population was divided into tertiles of global load. Stress-corrected midwall shortening was considered low if &lt;87% in men and &lt;90% in women. Low-flow AS was defined as stroke volume index &lt;22 ml/m(2.04).
In all, 1,256 consecutive patients with suspected CAD undergoing 64-slice CCTA in our institution between October 2004 and September 2006 were observed prospectively for the occurrence of severe cardiac events (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or unstable angina requiring hospitalization: primary study end point) and all cardiac events (additionally including revascularization &gt;90 days after CCTA). The observed rate of all cardiac events was compared with the event rate predicted by the Framingham risk score. Obstructive CAD was defined as &gt; or = 50% diameter stenosis in any coronary artery.
Ten porcine models of acute MI were imaged 10 days after MI using prospective and retrospective ECG-gated DCE-MDCT (64-slice) 10 min after a 90-ml contrast bolus. The MDCT images were analyzed using a semiautomated computed tomography density (CTD) threshold technique. Infarct size, signal-to-noise (SNR) ratios, contrast-to-noise (CNR) ratios, and image quality metrics were compared between the 2 ECG-gating techniques.
Myocardial perfusion measurements at rest and adenosine stress were performed on 81 patients (75.6% male, mean age 64.2 years) with stable angina pectoris (AP) and coronary artery stenoses of intermediate angiographic severity (50% to 75%). Regardless of the CMR result, all patients were treated conservatively with an intensified medical treatment, and a follow-up was performed after 18 +/- 8 months and 30 +/- 8 months. The primary end point was defined as a major adverse cardiac event (MACE): all-cause death, stroke, acute coronary syndrome; the secondary end point was defined as target vessel revascularization. Furthermore, AP and dyspnea were evaluated.
In all, 78 patients (age 66 +/- 8 years; 71 men) underwent CMR imaging including left ventricular function, first-pass adenosine stress perfusion (adenosine 140 microg/min/kg) using 0.05 mmol/kg body weight gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid and an additional 0.15 mmol/kg for LGE 1 day before invasive coronary angiography. Images were analyzed visually using the speed of contrast wash-in and maximal signal intensity. Transmural LGE defects of the size of a vessel or graft territory defined by angiography were considered true negatives, even when supplied by a stenosed/occluded vessel/graft. Stenoses &gt;50% in grafts and grafted or ungrafted native vessels (diameter &gt; or =2 mm) in invasive angiography were considered significant.
The study enrolled 854 consecutive patients undergoing mechanical reperfusion therapy for first MI. Paired (99m)Tc-sestamibi scintigraphy studies (acute and 7 to 14 days after reperfusion) were used to calculate myocardial salvage index. DC and TS were assessed from Holter recordings 7 to 14 days after reperfusion. Patients were categorized into 3 groups by salvage index: &lt;30% (n = 244), 30% to 60% (n = 257), and &gt; or =60% (n = 353).
Eighty consecutive patients (29 stable and 51 unstable angina) with normal pre-PCI cTnI levels were imaged before PCI using VH-IVUS. Patients were divided into 2 groups according to the presence (Group I, n = 38) or absence (Group II, n = 42) of post-PCI cTnI elevation &gt; or =3x the upper limit of normal (0.08 ng/ml).
From 30 patients imaged with IVUS-VH and OCT, 103 bifurcations were selected. The main branch was analyzed at the proximal rim of the ostium of the side branch, at the in-bifurcation segment and at the distal rim of the ostium of the side branch. Plaques with more than 10% confluent necrotic core by IVUS-VH were selected and classified as fibroatheroma (FA) or thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA) depending on the thickness of the fibrous cap by OCT (&gt;65 or &lt; or =65 microm for FA and TCFA, respectively).
We used immunohistochemical staining for syndecan-1 and tenascin antibodies in tumor tissue samples.
Helsinki University Central Hospital.
Tissue material came from 33 patients undergoing surgery from 1979 to 2005 for cystic pancreatic tumors.
ERCP records of 3,827 patients satisfying inclusion criteria between 1985 and 2005 were retrospectively analyzed.
Patients demonstrating anomalous pancreaticobiliary junction were identified and classified according to the new Komi classification.
We searched Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Web of Science, ETOH and AIM. Studies were included if they reported quantifiable information on risk and related confidence intervals with respect to at least three different levels of alcohol intake.
Two patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer progressed on gemcitabine, capecitabine and docetaxel (GTX). When sirolimus was added to this regimen at a dosage to achieve a serum level of at least 10 ng/dL at the time of the gemcitabine and docetaxel infusion, their tumors regressed.
We report an extremely rare case of pancreatic metastases in a 20-year-old man who had a right nephroblastoma resected at 9 years of age and liver metastases treated by right hepatectomy at 18 years of age. Pancreatic metastasis was revealed by acute pancreatitis. Imaging studies revealed one 2 cm nodule in the pancreatic head with upstream dilatation of the Wirsung duct. Imaging studies revealed no other localization except a 1.5 cm liver nodule. Surgical resection was performed without preoperative chemotherapy because the patient was symptomatic and had already received numerous chemotherapy protocols. The patient underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy and limited liver resection with an uneventful postoperative course. Pathological examination confirmed pancreatic and liver metastases from a nephroblastoma composed of blastematous cells mixed with embryonic tubular structures without lymph node metastases. After resection, the patient received adjuvant high dose chemotherapy with autologous hematopoietic stem-cell support. After a 21-month follow-up, the patient was in good general condition but had liver recurrence without intra-pancreatic recurrence.
We report a very rare case of an intrapancreatic accessory spleen which radiologically and cytologically mimicked a neuroendocrine pancreatic tumor.
The patient came to our hospital for a revaluation of a cystic pancreatic lesion. Ultrasound (US) and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) examinations were carried out. A small cystic lesion of about 1.5 cm in diameter was seen in the posterior aspect of the pancreatic uncinate process A very small, solid, vascularized nodule was detected at CEUS within the lesion. Consequently, the patient underwent CT and MRI. MRI confirmed the presence of an intralesional nodule and communication with the main pancreatic duct was demonstrated, suggesting the diagnosis of intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm with solid intralesional tissue. A pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy was carried out. An undifferentiated adenocarcinoma having a notable peripheral inflammatory reaction and dilated branch duct was finally diagnosed.
We describe two cases of lymphoepithelial cysts where a diagnosis of lymphoepithelial cyst was made using EUS guided Trucut biopsy.
We report the case of a patient in whom a lesion was detected in the head of the pancreas, following a nephrectomy performed 5 years previously for renal cell carcinoma. A magnetic resonance scan revealed a well-defined lesion in the head of the pancreas. The patient underwent a pancreaticoduodenectomy and histopathology confirmed a metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Two years after the surgery, the patient is doing well. The literature is reviewed for pancreatic metastasis from renal cell carcinoma, for metastatic pattern, surgical management and outcome.
We report the case of a 45-year-old female with heterotopic pancreas in the jejunum who presented with recurrent episodes of abdominal pain and had a submucosal lesion on endoscopy. As she had undergone gastrojejunostomy in the past, the lesion in the jejunum could be diagnosed on endoscopy by entering the efferent loop.
A 60-year-old man with a history of chronic pancreatitis presents with a clinical and laboratory picture suggestive of acute exacerbation of his pancreatitis. A computed tomogram (CT) scan of the abdomen revealed a pancreatic pseudocyst and a cystic lesion involving both lobes of the liver. CT diagnostic aspiration of the intrahepatic cyst revealed high amylase level (greater than 20,000 U/L). The cyst was treated with percutaneous drainage with complete resolution of the cyst.
Two patients with both extensive injury of the duodenum and diffuse peritonitis underwent pancreas preserving total duodenectomy at our tertiary care centre. These two young male patients (age 20 and 22 years) presented 2 days and 6 hours respectively following blunt abdominal trauma. The duodenum was almost completely separated from the pancreas. Ampulla was seen as a button on the pancreas. Following total duodenectomy, reconstruction was performed by suturing the jejunum to the head of the pancreas anteriorly and posteriorly away from the ampulla (invagination of the pancreas into the jejunum). There were no complications attributable to the procedure. Both patients are well on follow up.
The first patient was a young woman with an incidental 3 cm cyst located in the pancreatic head who underwent enucleation. The second patient was a young woman with a large 8 cm symptomatic cyst located in the pancreatic tail who underwent a laparoscopic spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy. Histological examination revealed fibrous walls lined by a monolayer of cuboidal epithelium in both cases.
An 80-year-old Japanese man presented with obstructive jaundice owing to a hepatic hilum bile duct stricture. Coincidentally, a soft tissue mass surrounding the abdominal aorta, suggesting retroperitoneal fibrosis, was identified. Unexpectedly, spontaneous regression of obstructive jaundice together with retroperitoneal fibrosis occurred. The presence of high serum IgG4 concentrations measured later led us to consider a possible association with autoimmune pancreatitis; however, there were no clinical features confirming autoimmune pancreatitis. After a 5-year history of spontaneous clinical remission, there was an elevation of serum IgG4 levels and renal dysfunction owing to bilateral hydronephrosis caused by a reemergence of the retroperitoneal mass. Evaluation by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography revealed a biliary stricture, suggesting sclerosing cholangitis which was observed without the presence of any pancreatic duct abnormality. The subsequent excellent results obtained using steroid therapy, namely the decrease in serum IgG4 levels and the regression of the retroperitoneal mass, strongly suggested that the present case was an IgG4-related sclerosing disease. Aside from high serum IgG4 concentrations, markedly elevated levels of serum IgE was found retrospectively, although the clinical significance remains unknown.
We report the computed tomography findings of a rare case of pancreatic metastasis in a 14-year-old boy with primary vertebral osteosarcoma being followed-up for 6 years. On abdominal CT, a huge mass containing necrotic and calcified areas and causing bone destruction was seen between thoracic vertebra 7 and sacral vertebra 1 involving both the vertebrae and paravertebral soft-tissue. A large metastatic mass with an irregular contour was also visualized in the pancreatic head and peripancreatic region having tomographic findings similar to the vertebral mass. Tru-cut biopsy of the pancreatic mass confirmed the diagnosis of osteosarcoma metastasis.
We report a case of pseudoaneurysmal rupture of the common hepatic artery into the biliodigestive anastomosis. A 55 year old female patient with a history of pancreatic head cancer underwent a pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy at our hospital in September 2008. Six days postoperatively the patient underwent surgery because of sentinel bleeding of a portal vein branch. On the 40th postoperative day she presented melena. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy indicated bleeding near the biliodigestive anastomosis. An emergency angiography demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm of the common hepatic artery. Transcatheter arterial embolization was performed and a hemodynamic stabilization of the patient was achieved. Six days after the embolization the patient developed hemorrhagic shock and an urgent relaparotomy was carried out. The explorative laparotomy revealed bleeding of the common hepatic artery into the biliodigestive anastomosis in the form of an arteriointestinal fistula. The anastomosis was opened, the ruptured pseudoaneurysm was sutured, and a new biliodigestive anastomosis was made. The patient has been well for two months with good liver function, without rebleeding.
This is a single case study of a 58-year-old female with chronic pancreatitis undergoing longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy for pain relief. Fifteen months after the surgery, the patient experienced pain recurrence. Radiologic evaluation followed by surgical exploration revealed a gastroenteric fistula to the Roux-limb, with obliteration of the anastomosis. After repair of the fistula and re-excavation of the pancreatic head, a two-layer longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy was reconstructed from the same Roux-limb. An omental flap was interposed between the Roux limb and the repaired stomach. At 6-month follow-up, the patient was pain free and asymptomatic.
We report a case of reconstruction of the superior mesenteric-portal vein with a splenic vein autograft in a patient affected by pancreatic head adenocarcinoma who underwent a total pancreatectomy.
A total of 537 patients underwent allo-HSCT for the treatment of leukemia, malignant lymphoma, and solid tumor. HBV serologic markers were examined in both recipients and donors prior to and following the transplantation. The mean follow-up period was 36.6 months (range 3-80 months).
A total of 510 HBsAg (+) or HBeAg (+) serum samples was collected from subjects in several cities and harbors throughout the Korean peninsula for genotype (A-G)-specific multiplex PCR analysis. Another 40 serum samples from chronic HBV carriers from Iksan city were selected for sequencing of the entire HBV genome. Phylogenetic analysis was performed with 22 whole genomic sequences of Korean HBV strains enrolled in GenBank.
Among 886 cases with HCC that had been diagnosed at Chonnam National University Hospital from January 2002 to December 2007, 62 cases (7.0%) with ruptured HCC were studied retrospectively regarding their clinical characteristics and prognostic factors.
From January 1989 to September 2008, 12 patients were diagnosed with hepatic tuberculosis by liver biopsy at Seoul National University Hospital. We retrospectively evaluated their clinical, laboratory, and imaging findings by medical record review.
Seventy-six children with chronic hepatitis B who were seropositive for HBeAg were treated with lamivudine for at least 6 months. HBeAg seroconversion occurred during treatment in 49 of these children, who were then followed up to assess their clearance of serum HBsAg. Various clinical variables were compared between those patients who were cleared of HBsAg and those who were not, including age, pretreatment serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA, treatment duration, the time elapsed between initiation of treatment and ALT normalization, HBV DNA negativization, HBeAg seroconversion, and HBsAg clearance.
Nucleos(t)ide-naive (group A, n=196) and lamivudine-experienced (serum hepatitis B virus, HBV DNA &gt;2,000 copies/mL without resistant mutants at the start of clevudine therapy, group B, n=75) patients were included in this study. Basic clinical characteristics including age, sex, the presence of cirrhosis, laboratory data, and hepatitis B surface antigen (HBeAg) positivity were similar between the two groups. Pretreatment serum levels of HBV DNA were 7.4 and 6.6 log(10) copies/mL (P&lt;0.001). The mean treatment duration was 8 months for both groups (range for group A: 3-21 months; range for group B: 3-20 months). Genotypic analysis for resistant mutations in the reverse transcriptase of HBV was performed after viral breakthrough.
This is an observational study of a cohort of patients infected by genotype 2/3 HCV. IDUs and patients with psychiatric diseases were not excluded from treatment. We performed an intention-to-treat analysis to evaluate factors related to treatment failure.
A 64-year-old man with alcoholic cirrhosis was admitted to hospital with severe bleeding from oesophageal varices. Ultrasonography showed ascites, but no dilatation of the biliary tree. The skin, sclerae, plasma, urine and ascites of the patient showed a greenish appearance. Bilirubin levels were normal, and there were no signs of haemolysis. Biliverdin was analysed in plasma and urine with liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. The seven exonic regions of the biliverdin reductase-A (BVR-A) gene was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and sequenced.
Liver slides and clinical charts from autopsied diabetics from 1997 to 2007 were reviewed. Exclusions were nonalcoholic fatty liver disease/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, cirrhosis of any cause, cardiac sclerosis and marked autolysis.
The GPC3 expression was categorized into three patterns - one with GPC3-negative staining and two with GPC3-positive staining (one with unclear membrane staining and one with clear membrane staining, designated GPC3+/C). The number of macrophages that were stained with resident macrophage (rMvarphi) or pan-macrophage (pMvarphi) markers was counted for each GPC3 expression pattern.
A cohort of 119 consecutively recruited chronic hepatitis C-infected patients was studied. Patients' sera were assessed for S. mansoni antibodies and cryoglobulins (CGs) were determined and characterized.
We compared the prevalence and incidence of thyroid dysfunction (TD) in a series of patients with PBC (n=67) with patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) (n=79) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) (n=97) seen in a tertiary referral centre who had previously participated in clinical trials.
We determined the expression of ET(A) and ET(B) receptors on normal and malignant (Mz-ChA-1) cholangiocytes and human cholangiocarcinoma tissue and the effect of ET-1 on the proliferation and expression of VEGF-A, VEGF-C (regulators of tumour angiogenesis) and its receptors, VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3, in Mz-ChA-1 cells. In vivo, Mz-ChA-1 cells were injected into the flanks of athymic mice and injections of ET-1 or saline into the tumours were performed daily. The effect of ET-1 on tumour size, cell proliferation, apoptosis, collagen quantity and the expression of VEGF-A and VEGF-C and VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3 were measured after 73 days.
We performed 68% hepatectomy, comparing UTI (-/-) and UTI (+/+) mice. Recovery of liver weight was recorded and we calculated labelling indices after 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry. A DNA microarray was used to examine gene expression followed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Serum IL-6, IL-10, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta (MIP-1beta) were measured.
We performed a retrospective analysis of 213 patients with cirrhosis who underwent liver transplantation. Patients with serum sodium &lt;or=130 mEq/L immediately before transplantation ('hyponatraemia at OLT'; n=34) were compared with those who had experienced hyponatraemia but subsequently improved to a serum sodium &gt;130 mEq/L at transplantation ('resolved hyponatraemia'; n=56) and to those without history of hyponatraemia before transplantation ('never hyponatraemic'; n=123). Primary endpoint was survival at 180 days post-OLT. Secondary outcomes included time until discharge alive, complications during hospitalization, length of time ventilated and length of post-transplant intensive care unit stay.
Eighty-one consecutive non-diabetic chronic hepatitis C patients (37 men and 44 women, mean age of 51.9+/-12.2 years) and 40 age, sex and body mass index (BMI)-matched healthy individuals were collected. IR was evaluated by the homoeostasis model assessment (HOMA). Serum levels of cytokines were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
One hundred and sixty-seven NAFLD patients [106 with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and 61 with simple steatosis] with a positive diagnosis by liver biopsy and 435 healthy control subjects were recruited in this study.
In this study, hepatocytes were isolated from the livers of control and HIF-1alpha- or HIF-1beta-deficient mice and exposed to hypoxia.
Seventy-two patients were randomly placed into TIPS-LBPV (36 patients) and TIPS-RBPV (36 patients, with four failures) groups, and they were prospectively followed for 2 years after TIPS implantation.
C57BL/6 mice were fed a methionine- and choline-deficient high-fat diet (MCDHF) or a standard diet with/without the administration of Tel (10 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks.
Chronic hepatitis-associated fibrosis was induced in 13 Smad3 null and 13 wild-type (WT) mice by intraperitoneal DMN administration (10 microg/g body weight/day) for three consecutive days per week for 6 weeks. The liver was excised for macroscopic examination and histological, morphometric and immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses. For IHC, alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), collagen types I-III, TGF-beta1, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), Smad3, Smad7 and CD3 antibodies were used.
Eight patients with compensated or very early decompensated cirrhosis and hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) &gt;10 mmHg, received 2 months of VSL#3 (3600 billion bacteria daily). The HVPG, intestinal permeability, endotoxin, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, renin and aldosterone were measured at baseline and study end.
Adult dogs received an intravenous injection of low-dose adenoviral vectors encoding human HGF and VEGF (HGF/VEGF), beta-galactosidase (lacZ) or phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Liver proliferation was measured using the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) immunostaining labelling index. HGF and VEGF plasma concentrations and transaminases were repeatedly measured. Transgene expression was evaluated using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction.
This study uses a household survey to assess the determinants of demand for bed nets in an area of endemic malaria transmission in rural, southern Mozambique. The study looks at willingness to pay (WTP) for bed nets, net ownership, usage, and past purchase behaviour, alongside expenditure and frequency of use of alternate methods for malaria prevention.
A retrospective review of the strategic response required to treat patients with bushfire-related injury in the first 72 hours of the Victorian bushfires that began on 7 February 2009. Emergency department (ED) presentations and initial management of patients presenting to the state's adult burns centre (The Alfred Hospital [The Alfred]) were analysed, as well as injuries and deaths associated with the fires.
Cross-sectional survey in 2008 of 134 Australian hospitals, mostly urban centres that treat large numbers of stroke patients.
Survey questions covered assessment, early management and follow-up practices, as well as organisation of services for TIA.
A prospective cohort study.
Venous blood samples were collected from 140 Rhesus (Rh) D-negative women booked for antenatal care in two tertiary maternity hospitals in Sydney and Brisbane between November 2006 and April 2008. Cell-free DNA, including free maternal and fetal DNA, was extracted from maternal plasma in the tertiary Australian Red Cross Blood Service laboratory, and three exon regions of the RHD gene were amplified.
Comparison of the predicted fetal RHD status and the infant's RhD serotype. Secondary analysis involved using SRY and RASSF1A assays as internal controls to confirm the presence of fetal DNA in RHD-negative samples.
We studied 296 subjects recruited from the general population, equally distributed according to sex and aged between 20 and 70 years. Serum IGF-I level was measured in all subjects and an insulin tolerance test (0.15 U/kg Actrapid iv) and GHRH/GHRP-6 test (1 microg GHRH/kg and 1 microg GHRP-6/kg) were performed in 49 subjects.
Individual and combined associations of NSAIDs and CYP2C9*2 and *3 variant alleles with colorectal cancer were studied in 7757 Caucasian individuals of The Rotterdam Study, a population-based prospective cohort since 1990. Additive and multiplicative effect modification models were used to examine drug-gene interactions.
Patients were 36 persons with SM diagnosed according to WHO criteria. Controls were 31 patients without SM. Immunophenotyping was performed according to published guidelines.
We conducted a non-targeted survey among Dutch medical specialists in Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Internal Medicine who actively treat HCV patients. The questionnaire contained items about facility, duration and dosing of treatment, and side effect management using clinical vignettes followed by short questions.
In a longitudinal cohort study tumour stages were assessed in 144 symptomatic (mean age 69.3 years, 56% male) and 41 asymptomatic colorectal cancer patients (mean age 64.9 years, 56% male) of which 11 were detected with guaiac FOBT s (G-FOBT, Hemoccult-II) and 30 with immunochemical FOBTs (I-FOBT, OCSensor). Stage distributions were used to calculate average stage specific predicted five-year survival rates and to analyse group differences with Wilcoxon log-rank test.
A 79-year-old female with RCC presented with low-grade fever, weight loss and overt granulocytosis and thrombocytosis. Radiological examination revealed a right-sided renal tumour. During nephrectomy a gradient between the IL-6 levels in the renal artery and vein was demonstrated, providing direct evidence for in vivo production of IL-6 by the tumour affected kidney, which was confirmed by the demonstration of IL -6 in the tumour cells by immunohistochemical staining and in the supernatant of the homogenised tumour. Cytogenetic examination revealed complex abnormalities including a gain of chromosome 7. In addition we demonstrated production of IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-8 and ICAM-1 in the tumour with systemic elevated levels of IL-6 and IL-8 with secondary increased serum G-CSF and TPO levels.
Data were obtained retrospectively on 22 patients treated with conivaptan for euvolemic hyponatremia. End points evaluated included time to [Na] increase of &gt;or=6 meq/l; incidences of rapid overcorrection of [Na] (defined as an increase of &gt;12 meq/l in a 24-h period while on conivaptan), infusion site reactions, or other adverse events; and whether sodium levels decreased after discontinuation of conivaptan.
The efficacy of intermittent bolus doses of conivaptan to correct hyponatremia was examined in a consecutive series of patients treated in our neurointensive care unit. Patients were excluded if baseline sodium was over 135 mEq/l or if another conivaptan dose was given within 12 h. We assessed the proportion responding with a 4 or 6 mEq/l rise in sodium by 12 h, the change in sodium from baseline, and, in those not receiving another dose for at least 72 h, the long-term ability of a single dose to maintain sodium at least 4 mEq/l above baseline. We also recorded the effects of conivaptan on urine output and specific gravity, and noted any adverse events.
Collected data included age, sex, therapy indication and duration, dosing regimen, documented seizure activity, ICU admission diagnoses, length of ICU stay, serum creatinine, liver function tests, adverse reactions, concomitant use of other AEDs, and drug interactions.
Prospective randomized controlled clinical trial.
Tertiary care neurocritical care unit.
Sixty-seven mechanically ventilated adult patients receiving continuous intravenous sedation with propofol.
Sedation monitoring using clinical assessment with the Ramsay scale (Ramsay-alone group) or clinical assessment plus BIS monitoring (BIS-augmentation group). Subjects were randomized to Ramsay-alone (n = 35), or BIS-augmentation (n = 32). Nurses adjusted the dose of propofol to a Ramsay of 4, or a Ramsay of 4 and BIS between 60 and 70.
We prospectively enrolled patients with spontaneous ICH without underlying vascular malformation or neoplasm. We recorded clinical data and the proximate mechanism of death (BD, withdrawal of life support, cardiovascular death, or other cause). Time to death was compared with Kaplan-Meier methods (log-rank test). Data are median (IQR).
We analyzed one-year data (2005-2006) from the Premier database which is a nationally representative hospital discharge database containing data pertaining to admissions in the United States. We compared discharge outcomes, length of stay, and cost of hospitalization between groups of patients who were treated using either intravenous nicardipine or nitroprusside infusion. Chi-square and ANOVA were used for univariate analysis. Logistic and linear regression analyses were performed to adjust for baseline risk of mortality between the two groups.
This retrospective, single-center cohort study included adult patients admitted to the NSICU between January 2001 and July 2004 with a primary diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), or traumatic brain injury (TBI). Patients and VTE events were identified using ICD-9 codes. All patients received low-dose unfractionated heparin or enoxaparin and intermittent pneumatic compression device. Descriptive statistics were used to describe patient characteristics.
A 67-year-old male underwent lumbar laminectomy followed by parathyroidectomy. Postoperatively, he was comatose (Glasgow Coma Scale of 7) and underwent extensive neurological evaluation. Brain computed tomography (CT) imaging and CT angiography revealed no ischemia, vessel occlusion, or hemorrhage. Electroencephalogram (EEG) showed only slowing of cerebral hemispheric activity bilaterally. Over the next 48 h, his mental status slowly improved and the patient made a full neurological recovery (Glasgow Coma Scale 15).
A 28-year-old male was involved in a high-speed motor vehicle collision suffering a severe TBI and polytrauma. He required significant volume resuscitation. Intensive care unit course was complicated by shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, ventilator associated pneumonia, and development of intracranial hypertension (IH). Data were collected by retrospective chart review.
Consecutive ischemic stroke patients presenting &lt;3 h from symptom onset with major vessel occlusion on CT angiogram (CTA) were randomly assigned to IV TPA (per NINDS protocol) or IA TPA (22 mg over 2 h). Demographics, times to presentation and thrombolysis, presenting NIH stroke scale (NIHSS) and 90-day NIHSS, Barthel Index, and modified Rankin Scale were recorded. CT-scans at 24-h were reviewed for presence of hemorrhage. Recanalization was determined by post-procedure MR angiograms, which are obtained the day after thrombolytic therapy.
Retrospective review of patients who experienced angiographically negative SAH at our institution over the past 6 years was undertaken. The patients were stratified based on grade at presentation, severity, and pattern of SAH on initial non-enhanced, computed tomography (CT) of the head into perimesencephalic and diffuse subtypes. The patients were further differentiated based on the development of vasospasm, hydrocephalus and required treatments, and clinical outcomes. Patients were excluded if a causative lesion was discovered subsequently.
Case-report.
We analyzed data from the placebo arm of the Cerebral Hemorrhage and NXY-059 Trial (CHANT), an international multicenter randomized trial of a potential neuroprotectant that enrolled patients within 6 h of the onset of acute ICH. Logistic regression analyses were performed to determine whether early AED use was associated with poor outcome at day 90, defined as a modified Rankin Scale of 5 or 6 (severely disabled or dead).
A comparative cohort study of 21 adult patients with severe TBI (GCS &lt;or= 8) treated with induced normothermia [36-36.5 degrees C rectal probe setting; intravascular cooling catheter (CoolLine, Alsius Corporation, Irvine, CA)] were matched by age, gender, and severity of injury to 21 historical control severe TBI patients treated with conventional fever control methods. ICP was measured via an external ventricular catheter and time duration for ICP &gt; 25 mmHg was calculated for the initial 72-h monitoring period. Non-parametric rank tests were performed.
We studied a patient who developed a sudden onset of slurred speech, right hemiplegia, and decreased level of arousal. Two days later CT scan showed a massive cerebral infarct, involving the left MCA territory.
Although numerous guideline statements exist regarding the management of blood pressure in these patients, most recommendations are based largely on Class III evidence. Further, there are few randomized controlled trials comparing vasopressor agents in these patients and selection is often guided by expert consensus.
Prospectively, blood glucose and cerebral metabolism, measured by cerebral microdialysis, were evaluated in 178 patients (WFNS grade I-V; age 51.6 +/- 12.4 years) during days 1-7 after SAH. Patients were classified into groups with mean blood glucose levels &lt;or=/&gt; 6.1 mmol/l (110 mg/dl) and 7.8 mmol/l (140 mg/dl). Glasgow Outcome Score was assessed after 12 months.
Clinical and radiological information on adult SAH patients were reviewed. Patients were grouped based on the time elapsed from ictus to the initial head CT study. The amount of subarachnoid blood on CT was graded using the Hijdra sum score (HSS) and the modified Fisher scale (MFS). The relationship between the initial CT grading score and the risk of angiographic vasospasm was assessed for each group.
Published articles, books, book chapters, MEDLINE, CINAHL, and PsycINFO computerized databases.
Literature published in English from 1998-2008.
Secondary data analysis from a randomized controlled trial.
Three cancer centers and one suburban community hospital in New York.
205 patient-partner dyads (112 intimate-partner, 58 family-member, and 35 nonfamily-member dyads).
Mann-Whitney nonparametric comparisons and chi-square tests were used to assess dyad types on continuous and categorical variables, and a mixed model for repeated measures compared postsurgical adjustment among dyad types.
Type of patient-partner dyads and physical, emotional, and social adjustment.
Two-group, randomized, controlled clinical design.
An academic cancer infusion center in the western United States.
136 hematologic outpatients with cancer or other malignancies.
Participants were randomly assigned to dry or moist heat with warmed towels wrapped around each patient's arm for seven minutes prior to IV insertion. Skin and room temperatures were monitored pre- and postwarming. Two experienced chemotherapy infusion nurses performed the venipunctures according to protocol. Outcomes were examined using variance analysis, with 34 patients for each combination of nurse and heat type.
Number of IV insertion attempts, time to achieve IV insertion postheating, patient anxiety levels pre- and postheating, and patient comfort.
Descriptive.
Oncology outpatient sections of four public hospitals in Hong Kong.
215 ethnic Chinese women who were midway through treatment for breast cancer.
Chinese versions of the Brief Fatigue Inventory, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Brief Pain Inventory, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy for Breast Cancer, and Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey were used. Spearman rho correlation and structural equation modeling were used to examine the relationships among the study variables.
Breast cancer, fatigue, pain, anxiety, depression, and QOL.
Quasi-experimental, descriptive.
Outpatient department in a large university hospital in Izmir, Turkey.
35 patients receiving chemotherapy for GI cancers.
Baseline demographic data were collected using a personal information form developed by the researchers. Fatigue and quality of life (QOL) were then assessed using the Brief Fatigue Inventory, the Piper Fatigue Scale, and the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ C-30) scale before their first cycle of chemotherapy, on the 10th day after (T1), and again 10 days after the second cycle of chemotherapy (T2). Patients received an individual educational intervention at baseline, T1, and T2 based on the results of their fatigue assessment in accordance with the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) cancer-related fatigue guidelines. Patients were given an educational booklet on fatigue prior to treatment and symptom specific booklets as required at T1 and T2.
Subjective reports of patients' fatigue and QOL.
Published nursing articles.
Qualitative.
Senior centers and participants' homes.
5 older Mexican American cancer survivors.
The sample included five Spanish-speaking Mexican Americans with low incomes who were previously diagnosed with cancer. Ages ranged from 68-86 years (X = 76.4). Participants were recruited through several community-based agencies and resources. Interviews were conducted and recorded on audiotape in participants' homes or at a senior center. A demographic questionnaire and the Mini Mental State Exam were administered in English or Spanish.
Perceptions of healthcare delivery.
Descriptive pilot study.
Outpatient chemotherapy treatment suite in a large cancer center in the midwestern United States.
A convenience sample of 10 women receiving outpatient chemotherapy for recurrent ovarian cancer.
A centering prayer teacher led participants through three one-hour sessions over nine weeks. Data were collected prior to the first session, at the conclusion of the final session, and at three and six months after the final session.
Feasibility and influence of centering prayer on mood, spiritual well-being, and quality of life.
CINAHL, PubMed, published articles, and Web sites.
Heideggerian phenomenologic inquiry using unstructured interviews.
A regional cancer center in the United Kingdom.
8 patients with advanced cancer living with cachexia and 8 family members.
Singular unstructured interviews were recorded digitally, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed using thematic and interpretative phenomenologic analysis.
Cachexia and advanced cancer.
Cross-sectional survey.
National survey sample.
A geographically dispersed national random sample of 1,000 Oncology Nursing Society members who had cared for inpatient patients with cancer, could read English, and had experience in EOL care.
Eligible respondents received a 68-item questionnaire in the mail adapted from previous studies and were asked to rate the size of obstacles and supportive behavior items in caring for patients with cancer at the EOL.
EOL, oncology, barriers, supportive behaviors, oncology nurses, and survey research.
Cross-sectional survey.
Three hospitals located in eastern Australia.
175 patients with breast cancer.
A survey, based on Protection Motivation Theory, was used to assess whether treatment variables, demographic variables, arm advice, fear, or coping attributes predicted women's intentions to avoid strenuous arm activity.
Intention to avoid strenuous arm activity, presence of arm or chest symptoms, receipt of arm care advice, and fear of lymphedema.
A secondary analysis was conducted using data from three pilot studies that tested a theory-based intervention to improve symptom management in older breast cancer survivors.
Advanced practice nurses conducted open-ended interviews with older breast cancer survivors either in their homes or via telephone.
Participants were recruited from the community, an oncology clinic, and a state tumor registry. The women (N = 61, X age = 69.5) were an average of 4.7 years after breast cancer diagnosis and reported an average of 17 symptoms.
Content analysis was conducted with field notes taken during baseline interviews.
Symptom representations, symptom management strategies, and perceived barriers to symptom management.
DNA samples from 100 subjects were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction, followed by digestion with restriction endonucleases.
The authors present three cases, and review the etiology, clinical features, presumed pathomechanism and the possibilities of treatment.
During the study period 2005-2008 (4 years) we followed 5869 pregnancies. Retrospectively, 172 (2.9%) patients met the criteria of metabolic syndrome at the time of the first trimester.
1. Multifocal hemorrhagic infarcts of the brain, caused by generalized aspergillosis in mantle cell malignant lymphoma. 2. Cerebral microabscesses, caused by systemic candidiasis in a premature infant. 3. Fatal actinomycosis, mimicking a space occupying tumour in the thigh and with an abscess in the brain, radiologically indicated as a metastasis. The cause of death was actinomycotic pneumonia. 4. A successfully treated and recovered patient with recurrent pneumonia and multiplex brain abscesses, caused by filamentous microorganism of a Nocardia species revealed by histological examination of the neurosurgical specimen.
Total of 440 patients, 206 with Crohn's disease, 234 with ulcerative colitis, and 279 controls were studied by PCR-RFLP methods.
A total of 94 patients diagnosed with cervical dystonia (n=33), blepharospasm (n=32), or hemifacial spasm (n=29) were treated. The mean age of the patients was 62.4 years, and the mean duration of the therapy was 6.8 years. The medication took place with local injection of botulinum toxin type A. The efficacy of the treatment was assessed with Patient Global Impression scale. The authors also evaluated the side effects and complications of the therapy, as well as the causes of the treatment discontinuation.
From 1999 to 2008, MSF provided free diagnosis, etiological treatment, and follow-up care for patients &lt;18 years of age seropositive for T. cruzi in Yoro, Honduras (1999-2002); Olopa, Guatemala (2003-2006); Entre Ríos, Bolivia (2002-2006); and Sucre, Bolivia (2005-2008). Essential program components guaranteeing feasibility of implementation were information, education, and communication (IEC) at the community and family level; vector control; health staff training; screening and diagnosis; treatment and compliance, including family-based strategies for early detection of adverse events; and logistics. Chagas disease diagnosis was confirmed by testing blood samples using two different diagnostic tests. T. cruzi-positive patients were treated with benznidazole as first-line treatment, with appropriate counseling, consent, and active participation from parents or guardians for daily administration of the drug, early detection of adverse events, and treatment withdrawal, when necessary. Weekly follow-up was conducted, with adverse events recorded to assess drug safety. Evaluations of serological conversion were carried out to measure treatment effectiveness. Vector control, entomological surveillance, and health education activities were carried out in all projects with close interaction with national and regional programs.
Mouthwash-derived DNA was extracted from 500 subjects participating in a genetic study of high myopia. DNA quality was investigated using two standard techniques: agarose gel electrophoresis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).
Whole-genome DNA microarrays were used to profile gene expression and CNAs in a collection of 52 widely-used breast cancer cell lines, and comparisons were made to existing profiles of primary breast tumors. Hierarchical clustering was used to identify gene-expression subtypes, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) to discover biological features of those subtypes. Genomic and transcriptional profiles were integrated to discover within high-amplitude CNAs candidate cancer genes with coordinately altered gene copy number and expression.
60 clinicians of different grades and from different specialities were randomly recruited to interpret 15 CXRs within 30 min. Radiographs included normal (n = 5) and abnormal images of common medical emergencies (n = 10). Non-parametric statistical tests examined for significant differences in the ability of different grades and specialities of doctors to interpret CXRs.
Cases with a clinical diagnosis of Chikungunya and Dengue fever were recruited for seroconfirmation during a concurrent epidemic in 2006-07, at the General Hospital, Peradeniya, Sri Lanka.
Prospective observational study in a university teaching hospital of 90 consecutive patients admitted to secondary care over an 18 month period with acute tonsillitis, peritonsillar cellulitis or quinsy were studied. The geographical distribution by postcode, pre-admission history and treatment of each patient was recorded. The patients' general practitioners (GPs) were questioned about the patients' history, their use of antibiotics and prescribing guidelines and a patient questionnaire was completed. The result of hospital admission including throat swabs and blood cultures were recorded together with their treatment and outcome.
Mouthguards were fabricated on a fully dentate maxillary cast with 4-mm thick ethylene vinyl acetate sheets using a well-dried cast (VD) and on a wet cast (VW) with a vacuum-forming machine. Mouthguards were also made with a pressure-forming machine (P). The mouthguard outline was set at 4 mm from the cervical margin (control, C), the palatal outline was set at the cervical margin (Pa), and the buccal outline was extended to the buccal fold (Bu). A dislodging force perpendicular to the occlusal plane was applied at the first molar on the universal testing machine. Results were analyzed using ANOVA with Scheffe's test (P &lt; .05).
Micro?computed tomography data were used to generate finite-element models with a mesio-occlusaldistal (MOD) cavity preparation and the corresponding restoration. The tooth parts were imported in finite-element software to create 3D volumetric models. Occlusal loading either in enamel, at restoration margin, or in restorative material was simulated by linear contact analysis. Cuspal widening was measured for the different contact locations and restorative conditions (unaltered tooth, MOD porcelain, and composite-inlay restorations).
The design was a case-control study. The setting was the laboratory of postgraduate students in the College of Pharmacy, University of Mosul, Iraq. Clinical evaluation of the paste was conducted in the outpatient clinic of the Oral Medicine Department, College of Dentistry, University of Baghdad, Iraq. The novel paste (named dexamucobase) was prepared under aseptic conditions and evaluated for its therapeutic effect in 53 patients with recurrent aphthous stomatitis, in comparison with 37 patients treated with triamcinolone acetonide in Orabase.
Six commercially available ball attachment systems were selected. The balls were attached to stylized implants fixed in metal casts. The matrices were fixed in a stylized unilaterally removable partial denture (RPD). Using a chewing simulator with 8 units, 50,000 joining and separating cycles of the matrices were performed. After each joining movement, an eccentric load of 100 N was applied to the RPD at a distance of 12 mm from the ball attachment. The retention forces were measured at intervals.
Between December 2003 and December 2006, 22 patients (10 women and 12 men with a median age of 51 years) underwent grafting with horizontal augmentation without membrane and 88 implants inserted thereafter. The mean implant follow-up was 27 months. Implants used were 30 double etched (3i, Osseotite, Biomet), 10 SLA1 (Astratech), 26 anodic oxidized (Nobel Biocare), 12 CaPO4 ceramic-blasted (Lifecore Biomedical), 7 SLA2 (Sweden and Martina Spa), 2 ITI (Straumann), and 1 Biotec (Povolaro di Dueville). Implant diameter and length ranged from 3.25 to 5.0 mm and from 8.0 to 15.0 mm, respectively. Implants were inserted to replace 10 incisors, 7 canines, 36 premolars, and 35 molars.
Three examiners determined the L* (lightness), C* (chroma), and h* (hue) values and tooth color according to the Vita 3D-Master shade guide system (Vident), twice for 161 anterior teeth of 19 subjects by use of a spectrophotometer (Vita Easyshade 1, Vita Zahnfabrik). Between the 2 measurements on each tooth, the investigators had to completely remove the probe tip from the mouth. The reliability of the measurements was observed, and deviations between the 2 L*C*h* measurements, as well as DeltaEab for the measurements, were calculated.
We developed a protocol to generate DCs from hESCs in vitro in the absence of serum and feeder cells. This protocol uses growth factors bone morphogenetic protein-4, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), stem cell factor and VEGF in serum-free media to generate hESC-derived monocytic cells. These cells are further differentiated to hESC-derived immature DCs with GM-CSF and IL-4, and matured to hESC-derived mature DCs with a maturation cocktail consisting of GM-CSF, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IFN-gamma and PGE2.
BM-MSCs were cultured in fibrin and assessed for cell attachment and viability by using immunofluorescence staining for actin filaments and Live/Dead((R)) viability assays, respectively. To determine the efficacy of BM-MSCs in fibrin in vivo, chronically infarcted rat hearts were treated with either cells, cells in fibrin, fibrin or saline (n = 9). After 5 weeks, the infarct scar tissues were assessed for neovascularization.
In this investigation, the impact of available oxygen was investigated to identify optimal conditions for human ASC chondrogenesis in vitro. Four physiologically relevant oxygen concentrations of 15, 10, 5 and 1% were compared with ambient air condition, and the ASCs originating from six unrelated donors were subjected to chondrogenic induction in high-density pellet cultures.
The analysis is based on 20 interviews with leading industrialists in the field.
We performed a literature review to generate a list of potentially important items for the assessment of control of ARA. A formal consensus development process, that used an innovative web-based application, was designed - 111 experts in ARA and 60 patients participated. At the final consensus meeting, 25 primary and secondary care physicians formulated the questions and response options. A qualitative feasibility study (n = 31 patients) was conducted to evaluate the comprehensibility of the questionnaire while testing two different designs.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated and cell numbers and intracellular granzyme B and perforin were analysed by flow cytometry. Immunomagnetically selected CD8+ T lymphocytes, NK (CD56+CD3-) and NKT-like (CD56+CD3+) cells were used in an LDH release assay to determine cytotoxicity and cytotoxic mechanisms were investigated by blocking perforin and granzyme B with relevant antibodies.
The Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) was administered to 159 stroke survivors and caregivers at discharge and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Other variables tested included stroke survivor function (FIM), health status, mutuality, stroke impact (SIS), caregiver coping (F-COPES), support (MOS Social Support Survey), and preparedness. Repeated measures analyses of PSS scores were conducted with linear mixed models for stroke survivors and caregivers.
Guided by a conceptual model, 6 outcomes (optimism, task difficulty, threat appraisal, depressive symptoms, life changes, general health perceptions) were measured in 40 caregivers randomized to the TASK (n=21) or an attention control group (n=19). Data were analyzed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), controlling for baseline scores and minutes spent with the nurse.
Caregivers were recruited in the Midwest and randomized into an experimental (Web users, n=36) or control (non-Web users, n=37) group. Telephone interviews were conducted with the caregivers every 2 weeks. Reported reasons were organized by group and time period in which the service occurred (i.e., Months 1-6 or 7-12; 1-year totals). Content analysis and descriptive statistics were used to analyze these data.
Adaptive physical activity sessions were conducted 3 times/week for 6 months. The main outcomes were Berg Balance Scale, Dynamic Gait Index, 6-Minute Walk Test, cardiovascular fitness (VO2 peak), Falls Efficacy Scale, and 5-day Step Activity Monitoring.
Participants were recruited primarily from six major metropolitan hospital databases. A total of 135 first-ever stroke survivors aged 25-96 years who were 6 to 24 months post stroke and community-dwelling were studied longitudinally over 6 months. HRQoL and psychosocial factors (optimism, self-esteem, perceived control, depressive status, and social support) were measured at baseline, 10 weeks, and 6 months.
ACT is a RCT of acetylcysteine versus placebo in 2,300 patients at-risk for CIN undergoing an intravascular angiographic procedure. The randomization list will be concealed. Participants, health care staff, investigators and outcome assessors will be blinded to whether patients receive acetylcysteine or placebo. All analysis will follow the intention-to-treat principle. The study drugs (acetylcysteine 1200 mg or placebo) will be administered orally twice daily for two doses before and two doses after the procedure. The primary outcome is the occurrence of CIN, defined as a 25% elevation of serum creatinine above baseline between 48 and 96 hours after angiography.
We will conduct a systematic review of reports of RCTs recently published in five top general medical journals. Eligible RCTs will demonstrate statistically significant effect estimates with respect to primary outcomes that are patient-important and expressed as binary data. Teams of 2 reviewers will independently determine eligibility and extract relevant information from each eligible trial using standardized, pre-piloted forms. To assess the potential impact of loss to follow-up on the estimates of treatment effect we will, for varying assumptions about the outcomes of participants lost to follow-up (LTFU), calculate (1) the percentage of RCTs that lose statistical significance and (2) the mean change in effect estimate across RCTs. The different assumptions we will test are the following: (1) none of the LTFU participants had the event; (2) all LTFU participants had the event; (3) all LTFU participants in the treatment group had the event; none of those in the control group had it (worst case scenario); (4) the event incidence among LTFU participants (relative to observed participants) increased, with a higher relative increase in the intervention group; and (5) the event incidence among LTFU participants (relative to observed participants) increased in the intervention group and decreased in the control group.
The sample consisted of three groups comprising 36 Caucasian models, 30 Korean models, and 26 Korean nonmodels. Their frontal photos were scanned, and 12 distances, five angles, lip perimeter, and lip area were measured. Differences among groups were compared using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey's test.
Mesiodistal positional, angular, and vertical changes of impacted canines were evaluated and statistically analyzed in pre- and posttreatment panoramic radiographs of 22 patients (12 treated with combination headgear, 10 treated with an activator).
The mesiodistal dimensions of teeth on study casts of 12- to 14-year-old Turkish children were measured. The actual tooth measurements were then compared with predicted values using the Tanaka-Johnston equation. Subsequently, the new regression equations were tested in a group of 50 individuals to determine their validity.
Seventy-five pretreatment lateral cephalograms (25 each of Class I, II, and III) were subdivided based on ANB, Wits appraisal, and Beta angle into skeletal Class I, II, and III. The same cephalograms were again classified into skeletal Class I, II, and III based purely on Beta angle. The new measurement is based on the landmarks S, M (midpoint of the anterior maxilla), and G (center at the bottom of the symphysis), which form the YEN angle measured at M.
Based on data obtained from previous oligonucleotide arrays, we investigated expression of VAT-1 in glioblastoma tissue and cell lines on mRNA levels using reverse transcriptase PCR. Furthermore, we examined the amount and localization of VAT-1 protein using immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. Using small interfering RNA technology we repressed VAT-1 expression in human glioma cell lines and analysed their migration using wound healing and transwell migration assays.
Biopsy spheroids were implanted and passaged intracranially in nude rats. Gene expression and protein analyses were performed, and drug sensitivity was assessed.
A cohort of 2598 patients of falciparum malaria were enrolled in this study of which 2089 patients were included as developmental sample and 509 patients as validation sample. Physiological variables were analyzed for defining and assessment of severity of organ dysfunction (OD). The severity level and corresponding severity score for each organ dysfunction were determined by logistic regression analysis that took both the relative severity among the organ systems and the degree of severity within an organ system into account. Risk of mortality has been calculated for each score.
We developed a Multi Layer Perceptron Neural Network model, which had been trained by back propagation algorithm. Data was used from a cohort of 241 individuals with diabetes. We used age, gender, weight, fasting plasma glucose as a set of inputs and predicted measures of well-being (depression, anxiety, energy and positive well-being).
Seventy seven patients of type 2 diabetes were recruited for the study (one patient lost after recruitment; 76 completed the study). History and physical examination were recorded. Laboratory investigations included fasting and 2-hour post-prandial blood sugar, blood urea, serum creatinine, lipid profile, glycated haemoglobin, and microalbuminuria. Ultrasonographic scanning of the carotid arteries was performed to measure the carotid IMT. For identification of cases of silent ischaemia, treadmill test (TMT) was performed.
The Chennai Urban Rural Epidemiology Study [CURES] is a large cross-sectional study conducted in Chennai, South India. In Phase 1 of CURES(urban component), 26,001 individuals aged &gt; or =20 years individuals were selected by a systematic sampling technique of whom one hundred subjects were randomly selected, using computer-generated numbers, for this validation study. Two self-reported questionnaires (modified PHQ-12 item and PHQ-9 item) were administered to the subjects to compare their effectiveness in detecting depression. Reliability and validity were assessed and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves were plotted. Pearson's correlation was used to compare the two questionnaires.
The methods applied include a literature search strategy, inclusion and exclusion criteria for selecting the studies, characteristics of the studies, quality assessment and meta-analysis. Data sources included PubMed, EMBASE, SciELO and LILACS. Selected papers were articles relating to human studies investigating whether or not diabetes is a risk factor for periodontitis and if it influences the response to periodontal therapy. Those papers that were published between January 1980 and June 2007 were retrieved.
A cross-sectional study of 94 dentate patients aged 60 or older was conducted at two public dental offices in Lithuania. Half-mouth recordings of dental plaque, calculus and deepened periodontal pockets were expressed as mean values per subject. These indicators described the severity of periodontal findings. A self-administered questionnaire provided information on toothbrushing frequency, age, gender and education. Statistical evaluation included chi-square test, analysis of variance and logistic regression.
This was a double-blind, linear crossover, within-group comparative experimental trial conducted among 40 children aged 12 to 15 years. The study was divided into five phases: (1) distilled water (control); (2) 3% neem; (3) 2% triclosan; (4) 0.2% chlorhexidine gluconate; and (5) 1% sodium hypochlorite. The toothbrushes were collected after 5 days of brushing and were soaked for 12 h in antimicrobial solutions of separate phases, after which the toothbrushes were submitted for microbial analysis to check for the presence of S. mutans.
Forty patients participated in a randomised study. Of the 60 root carious lesions that were included, 20 were randomised for treatment with the Carisolv chemo-mechanical technique and the Duraphat (2.23% F) fluoride varnish, 20 with Duraphat alone and 20 with stannous fluoride solution (8%). The lesions were treated at baseline and after three and six months; a clinical evaluation was carried out on these occasions and after 1 year.
The present study sample consisted of 178 first-year medical students. The questionnaire that was used in this study included information about sociodemographic factors, behavioural factors, self-reported oral health status, self-control and self-confidence.
A cross-sectional study was performed involving individuals over the age of 59 years, resident in the city of Florianópolis, Brazil. A sample of 180 individuals selected in a two-stage approach was examined and interviewed. The World Health Organization Quality of Life-BREF (WHOQOL-BREF) was used to collect data on self-reported quality of life. The OIDP questionnaire was used to collect data on oral impact on daily performances. The criteria for the clinical data were those proposed by the World Health Organization. The dependent variable was the oral impact on daily performances. The chi-square test was used to examine the association between the dependent and the exploratory variables. Variables were inserted in a model of multiple logistic regression. The level of significance was set at P &lt; 0.05.
Self-administered questionnaires for Finnish (n = 338) and Turkish (n = 611) pre-adolescents and their mothers were used to collect the information on cognitive (pre-adolescent and maternal self-efficacy) and behavioural factors (toothbrushing frequencies).
A random sample of 130 subjects, aged 21 to 63 years, was selected from the non-academic staff members of the Athens University of Economics and Business. Data were obtained for 92% (120 participants) of the sample by a questionnaire-based interview and a clinical examination. The questions concentrated on the demographic and socioeconomic characteristics and the ratings of oral health, the perceived need, oral functional impacts and the level of satisfaction with the appearance. In the clinical examination, the oral health status of the participants was thoroughly recorded.
The study sample consisted of 217 first-year dental students. The questionnaire included information about sociodemographic factors, behavioural variables, self-reported oral health status, self-liking, self-competence, body investment and perfectionism.
Retrospective, observational study in a single centre, university-affiliated hospital included 319 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and suitable for TOE. TOE was performed in each patient before and after the institution of cardiopulmonary by-pass. Normal and abnormal echocardiographic findings as well as immediate outcomes of the surgical procedure were recorded using a standard database form. Instances where TOE lead to alteration in operative management were documented. The findings were also compared with those documented on preoperative echocardiography.
We prospectively evaluated the levels of the serum concentration of liver enzymes aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and total bilirubin (TBil), in 42 morbidly obese and 40 non obese patients who were scheduled for elective abdominal surgery under sevoflurane anesthesia at the Jordan University Hospital, Amman, Jordan. Measurement of liver enzymes was done in the recovery room, and on the first, 3 and 7 days after sevoflurane anesthesia, and the results were compared between the morbidly obese and non obese patients.
With the Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, all patients were surveyed for quality of analgesia and complications. The patients and their caretaker received verbal and written instructions, including care of the catheter and pump, and a list of complications and side effects. All were instructed on catheter removal and were given a contact number, and patients were called once per day.
48 patients were randomly allocated into two equal groups following receiving spinal isobaric bupivacaine 12.5 mg. Patients in group D received intravenously a loading dose of 1 microg/kg dexmedetomidine over 10 min and a maintenance dose of 0.5 microg/kg/hr. Patients in group C (the control group) received normal saline. The regression times to reach S1 sensory level and Bromage 0 motor scale, hemodynamic changes and the level of sedation were recorded.
Seventy-five ASA I-II patients of both sexes (37 males (49.3%), 38 females (50.7%)) 18 to 45 years (mean 32.8 +/- 8.65 yr.) were randomly allocated into three equal groups (25 each). Group-1 received 0.2 mg clonidine, Group-2 received placebo and Group-3 received 900 mg gabapentin, 120 minute before operation. Heart rate, systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure were measured before induction of anesthesia, before laryngoscopy, and 1, 3, 5, 10 min after intubation.
Eighty four pediatric patients suffering of cancer pain were studied during the period 2001-2006. Patients were requested to rate their global intensity of pain on 0-100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS 0 = no pain, 100 = maximum pain). Pain management was performed in accordance with the WHO Analgesic Ladder for cancer pain. Patients were followed up weekly for three weeks.
104 children, 7 to 15 yr, ASA I or II scheduled for elective adenotonsillectomy were recruited for the study. Patients were randomized to receive either rectal acetaminophen 40 mg/kg or nothing after induction of standard anesthesia. The postoperative pain was assessed using visual analog scale (VAS) every 2 hours for the first 6 hours. The need for rescue analgesic, intravenous pethedine of 0.5 mg/kg, was recorded at 24 hours after surgery.
We compared the responses to a mechanical and an electrical stimulus in 30 pregnant women (pregnant group) scheduled for cesarean section and 30 healthy female volunteers (control group) matched for age. Pain was assessed by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) on two different days after skin application of EMLA or placebo cream on the forearms. EMLA and placebo cream were randomly applied on the medial surface of both forearms for 30 min in a blind cross over manner and the subjects received a mechanical stimulus generated through a pressor palpator followed by an electrical stimulus generated through a nerve stimulator.
15 patients scheduled for robotic laparoscopic radical cystectomy (RLRC) were randomly allocated into two groups to be anesthetized by either isoflurane anesthesia (ISO n = 8) or ketamine-midazolam-fentanyl total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA n = 7). The hemo-respiratory dynamics, oxygenation and biochemical variables were monitored taking into consideration the system organ function as primary outcomes, and operative conditions and recovery profile as secondary outcomes.
Forty-six patients (20-50 yrs), were randomly allocated in two equal groups. Under identical condition, the control group received a total dose of 3 mg/kg of lidocaine 1% diluted with saline, and the study group received an additional 200 microg NTG. Vital signs and tourniquet pain, based on visual analog scale (VAS) score were measured and recorded before and 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 min after anesthetic solution administration. The onset times of sensory and motor block were measured and recorded in all patients. After the tourniquet deflation, at 30 min and 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 h, VAS score, time to first analgesic requirement, total analgesic consumption in the first 24 h after operation, and side effects were noted.
A crossover randomized study of IVRA with a forearm tourniquet was conducted on 14 male healthy volunteers. This study was performed, once using manual injection of local anesthetic and once using automatic pump injection, on two separate sessions. In both techniques, 0.3 ml/kg lidocaine 0.5% was injected over 90 seconds. The occlusion pressure, continuous venous pressure and the serum lidocaine two minutes at end of injection, were recorded.
Thirty full-term infants scheduled for pyloromyotomy were prospectively studied. A standardized anesthetic induction was performed. For maintenance of anesthesia, infants were randomly allocated to receive either isoflurane 0.75% of inspired concentration (GI n = 15), or remifentanil as a continuous infusion of 0.4 microg x kg(-1) x mn(-1) (GR n = 15). At the beginning of skin closure, the anesthetic was discontinued and 15 mg x kg(-1) of paracetamol administered. Non parametric tests were used in statistical analysis.
Descriptive study comparing weight loss over time in intervention and control groups. Of 217 eligible participants in the intervention group, 58% were Native Hawaiian.
The study was conducted as a prospective comparative clinical trial. The patients (n=90) were classified according to the applied anesthetic technique into two groups: Volatile Induction and Maintenance Anaesthesia (VIMA) with sevofluran and Target Controlled Infusion (TCI). The results relating to parameters of recovery after anesthesia and surgery were compared between these two groups. The following parameters were analysed: demographic patients' characteristics, duration of anesthesia, the times to eye opening, to respond to a command, to extubation, and to orientation, from the last anesthetic dose receiving until post anesthesia discharge (PAD), frequency of postoperative nausea, vomiting and agitation (PONVA).
We presented here a four-year experience with 84 patients with breast reconstruction after modified radical mastectomy.
The study was conduced on 163 OLP patients who came in the Department of Oral medicine and Periodontology between 1997 and September 2007. Each case was classified into one of four clinical subtypes: reticular, atrophic, erosive-ulcerative, bullous.
This retrospective study analysed 40 patients who had been operated for OSCC of their tongue and the mouth floor. Of these patients, some had stage II and III OSCC with histological grade, G1-G3 and nuclear grade Ng1-Ng3. Two high quality tissue samples were obtained and immunohistochemical expression of VEGF was quantitatively determined by using high microscope amplification. The value of VEGF expression of 20% was rated as significant expression, whereas tumor cells reactivation less than 20% was considered very low or no expression at all. The patients were followed up for a 3-year period.
The study included 30 patients of both sexes (25 males and 5 females), mean age 30.10 +/- 10.24 years. The patients were classified in accordance with CEAP (clinical severity, ethiology or cause, anatomy, pathophysiology) classification as those with the initial varicous syndrome based on IPV. Any of the patients were submitted to color Doppler echophlebography. In case of diameter &gt; or = 3.5 mm PV were marked as IPV. All of the IPV were divided into two groups, the group I being with ostium in the stem of Vena Saphena Magna (VSM) or Vena Saphena Parva (VSP), while the group II was with ostium in the venous tributors. VSM and VSP diameters at the level of IPV ostium, bellow and above (1 cm) the ostium were measured prior to IPV ligature, and 30 days after the surgical intervention.
The study was carried out during 2007-2008 at the School of Medicine, University of Nis. It included 824 students in their final year (220 males, 604 females).
To evaluate oxidative stress in the patients, we determinated following parameters: triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL), oxidized LDL cholesterol (Ox LDL), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx), plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) which were measured at rest and immediately after the acute bout of cardiopulmonary exercise cycle-ergometer test.
We studied 161 military pilots (age 38 +/- 6 years) free of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus. Traditional and metabolic risk factors were determined. Plasma CRP was measured by immunonephelometry. The common carotid artery intima-media thickness was measured by ultrasonography in the posterior wall of both common carotid arteries.
In data analysis, crude rates age and sex specific rates, and standardized incidence rates were used. Standardization was performed by a direct method, using world population as the standard.
We presented two cases. A case one, a 35-year-old, previously healthy, woman ingested 14% diquat solution. The poisoning had fulminant course, consisted of severe stomachache, vomiting, cardiocirculatory shock, respiratory failure and cardiac arrest 20 hours post-ingestion. Autopsy revealed myocardial infarction, bronchopneumonia and incipient renal damage. A case two, a 64-year-old man developed severe gastroenteritis, corrosive lesions of mucosal surfaces, acute renal injury, arrhythmias, brain stem infarction and bronchopneumonia. The diagnosis of diquat poisoning was made retrospectively upon the clinical picture and identification of pesticides he had been exposed to. The patient died 18 days post-exposure. The most prominent findings on autopsy were pontine hemorrhage and infarction, bronchopneumonia, left ventricle papillary muscle infarction and renal tubular damage.
The study included four patients who presented with amyloidosis-associated intrahepatic cholestasis. Three of them had renal amyloidosis which developed 1-3 years before cholestasis occurred, the remaining one having intrahepatic cholestasis as the primary sign of the disease. Amyloidosis was identified from liver biopsies in all patients by its specific binding to Congo red and green birefringence in polarized light. The biochemical nature and the class of amyloid deposits were identified immunohistochemically. In addition to their regular treatment, the patients received 750 mg ursodeoxycholic acid per day. After 2-4 weeks all patients had a significant decrease of serum alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transferase, and their general status significantly improved.
A female patient, aged 38 years, visited doctor complaing of a decreased vision acuity and severe pain in the left eye and in the left part of the head. The initial treatment was urgent antiglaucomatous therapy followed by withdrawal of subjective problems of the patient and improvement of objective finding. History taking procedure revaled that just before the onset of the pain the patient had used ecstasy and had had similar "experience" 6 years ago after cocaine snorting. She had not been to a doctor although she had experienced sporadic migrenous pain. Previous medical records excavation of revealed optic disk (cup-to-dise C/D=06), Bjerum arcuate scotoma and iris plateau with narrow chamber angle (Scheie II-III) so the diagnosis was a rare unilateral iris plateau syndrome of the left eye. Although the patient was given some pieces of information about the dangerous and possible deadly consequences of psychoactive substanace abuse, she has not continue the treatment.
CINAHL, Medline, and the Cochrane database of Systematic Reviews were searched from 1987 to 2008. Information was also obtained through government health and professional organisation websites. All information in the literature regarding current and past status, and nomenclature of advanced practice nursing was considered relevant.
A self-administered online survey was completed by 68 NPs from across Australia.
This is an ethnographic study involving two AHCSs as participants. Audio visual data was collected in 2007 at a Major Metropolitan Hospital, Sydney during after hours shifts. The data was coded using the standards defined in the Nurse Practitioner (NP) competencies.
American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status IYII patients scheduled for total knee arthroplasty were administered effective single-shot blocks of the obturator and sciatic nerves using ropivacaine 0.5% 10 and 20 mL, respectively. Continuous femoral blocks were performed using stimulating catheters, which were advanced blindly. Neurostimulation via catheter was performed but was masked from the investigators' sight. Before general anesthesia was induced for surgery, 5 mL of ropivacaine 0.2% was administered through the femoral nerve catheter, followed by infusion (5 mL/hr). Visual analog scale (VAS) score at rest was recorded on admission to the postanesthesia care unit. Characteristics of neurostimulation via the catheters were analyzed.
Data were collected in a population-based case-control study, conducted in Montreal in the mid-1980s, designed to assess the associations between hundreds of non-occupational and occupational exposures and multiple cancer sites in men. We present results for 13 cancer sites: oesophagus (n = 78), stomach (n = 215), colon (n = 427), rectum (n = 239), liver (n = 28), pancreas (n = 83), lung (n = 700), melanoma (n = 107), prostate (n = 374), bladder (n = 425), kidney (n = 156), Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 42), and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 190), in comparison to population controls (n = 507). Odds ratios (OR) were estimated for the associations between lifetime consumption of total alcoholic beverages, beer, wine, and/or spirits, altogether and separately, and each cancer site, while carefully adjusting for smoking and other covariates using polytomous logistic regression.
Patients underwent unilateral sciatic nerve block in the popliteal fossa with mepivacaine 1.5%, using either a stimulating (STIM group) or a nonstimulating (NONSTIM group) popliteal catheter. The volume of mepivacaine started at 20 mL and was increased or decreased by increments of 2 mL in subsequent patients, depending on the efficacy of the block in the previous patient, using the technique of up-down sequential allocation described by Dixon (Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 1991;15:47-50). Minimum effective volumes of local anesthetic were calculated using the formula of Dixon. Efficacy of block was defined by a complete sensory-motor block in the cutaneous distributions of the sciatic nerve associated with a pain-free surgery.
ME cases were identified by surname in the California cancer registry and ME population estimates were based on ancestry. Data for 683 cases of primary brain tumors (429 benign, 238 malignant, 16 uncertain) in the ME and 15,589 cases (8352 benign, 6812 malignant, 425 uncertain) in the NHNMW were available for this study.
A total of 160 cases and 140 control subjects were studied for the polymorphisms at 3' end of the VDR gene. A polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method and fragment analysis was performed to determine ApaI and TaqI polymorphisms and variable length poly-A microsatellite repeats. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) was calculated for each pair of polymorphisms. Unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios for breast cancer with genotypes comprising the polymorphic sites were calculated to understand their role towards breast cancer susceptibility.
After obtaining the approval of the hospital ethics committee and written informed consent, 12 healthy volunteers (age, 34 years [SD, 10 years]; height, 169 cm [SD, 9 cm]; weight, 65 kg [SD, 10 kg]) were studied with MRI, and their positions were changed as follows: the supine position, lateral decubitus position without fully flexed legs, and lateral decubitus position with fully flexed legs. The movement of the central point of the spinal cord and cauda equina by changing position was evaluated.
In this work, we have conducted a case-control study in order to assess the combined effect of tobacco, slow NAT2 variants, MTHFR 677*T and MTR 2756*G alleles on bladder cancer development in North Tunisia.
We created a model using nerve, muscle, bone, and tendon tissue dissected from a sheep. Regional anesthesia needles of 21-gauge and 100 mm were placed into each of these tissues under direct vision, and 40 anesthetists were then asked to inject normal saline from a 20-mL syringe. They were unable to see the needle position. Once injected into all 4 tissues, they were asked to state which tissue they thought each was.
Sprague-Dawley rats of the same ages were randomly assigned into three groups treated differently. Rats in group one were given green tea in drinking water (tea concentration: 1.2%; tea polyphenols in the tea solution: 0.3%); rats in the groups two and three were given blank drinking water. Rats in the groups one and two were injected intra-pulmonarily with 3,4-benzopyrene dissolved in corn oil (2 mg/0.2 mL/injection, fortnightly, 4 times in all); rats in the group three were injected with the vehicle corn oil as the control for injection. All the rats were sacrificed one year after the first intra-pulmonary injection. Tumors developed in rats and lung tissues were collected for carcinoma diagnosis and for p53 and bcl-2 expression.
The guardians of 119 children provided demographic data and completed the standardized Arabic version of the ADHD Rating Scale on their children, who were either normal, had a diagnosis of ADHD, or had a non-ADHD psychiatric diagnosis. The mean rating scores of the groups were compared, and the cutoff points were calculated for both sexes.
One hundred ninety-six male football players (mean age [SD], 13.5 [0.5] yrs), practicing in three different cities of Tunisia (Tunis, Sousse and Sfax), underwent an outdoor free run of 7 minutes. Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV subset1) was recorded prior to and at 0, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 minutes after the run. Players were screened for EIB positivity defined as a greater than 10% decline in FEV subset1 from the resting value at any timepoint.
We identified each case of male breast cancer in the database at the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Srinagar, Kashmir, India, between the years 1983 to 2007.
The study was conducted on a convenience sample consisting of consecutive adult Arabic-speaking outpatients or visitors attending a university teaching hospital. Subjects were interviewed twice using a standardized questionnaire containing the EQ-5D, Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36). To assess the validity of the Arabic version of the EQ-5D, ten hypotheses relating responses to EQ-5D dimensions or the visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) to SF-36 scores or other variables were examined and test-retest reliability was assessed.
Six hundred thirteen married females were studied between October 2006 and August 2007 at the National Center for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Genetics (NCDEG), Amman, Jordan. Females were interviewed using a special questionnaire that was suitable to our culture and added to the Arabic translation of the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) Questionnaire.
The lesion morphology and contrast kinetics of 63 masses in 41 patients were evaluated on MRI and accorded a MRM BI-RADS final assessment category using the Fischer scoring system. The accuracy was evaluated after the final diagnosis was obtained by tissue sampling and follow-up imaging.
A cross-sectional survey was conducted on the anthropometric status of school children enrolled in the primary, intermediate and secondary government schools in all populated regions of Bahrain. The sample size included 2594 students (1326 girls and 1268 boys) representing 2.5% of the total student population. For sample selection, a multi-stage sampling design was chosen that combined multi-cluster and simple random sampling methods. Anthropometric measurements included height, weight, mid-arm circumference and skin fold thickness at two sites (triceps and subscapular). Anthropometric indices derived were body mass index (BMI) and arm muscle area. The WHO reference standards (2007) and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) II data were used for comparison.
A cross-sectional study was conducted in 10 secondary schools for girls using the Arabic version of the symptom-revised checklist 90 (SCL 90-R), a mental health questionnaire that was administered to the girls by fourth-year female medical students.
We report a case of widely metastatic malignant melanoma with diagnostic difficulties in both clinical and histopathological evaluation. Thorax CT, Abdominal MRI, tumor marker screening and two biopsies were performed to conclude the primary.
A literature search was conducted using Medline and restricting the search to articles after 1996. Additional articles were sourced from reference lists of relevant articles.
The study comprised a retrospective audit of data from 200 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who were admitted to hospital for a relapse of their disorder in two mental health services in Australia between 1 June 2001 and 31 May 2002. Resource use and costing data were collected for 12 months before and 12 months after the hospitalization.
A purposive convenience sample of 10 service users under CTOs were interviewed using the MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool for Treatment (MacCAT-T). Ratings were compared with the ratings of 10 matched voluntary service users.
This study employed a prospective cohort design in the form of a clinical audit. Health of the Nation Outcome Scales for Children and Adolescents (HoNOSCA) pre- and post-admission scores were compared for the whole sample and across diagnoses.
A semi-structured qualitative interview was undertaken with nine children aged 7-12 years. Transcribed interviews were analyzed to reveal common themes.
An audit of patients with schizophrenia, discharged from three psychiatric wards, was conducted. Two data sheets were recorded for every patient and inter-rater reliability was calculated. Data were then entered into SPSS and statistical significance calculated.
We measured the number of alprazolam prescriptions for the years prior to and the year following the intervention. Health Insurance Commission data were utilized to enable comparison of subsidized prescription rates for alprazolam in Tasmania, and compared with national data. Participants were registered medical practitioners in Tasmania who were potential prescribers of alprazolam. The interventions were three GP Education Meetings during June 2007, one in each of the major regions of Tasmania, regarding evidence-based interventions for panic disorder. Changes to regulatory procedures to minimize co-prescription of alprazolam with opioids was implemented in September 2007.
Medical students enrolled in the University of Sydney in 2008 were invited to complete a voluntary online questionnaire, in which their attitudes towards psychiatry were explored, and the immediate effects of a 15-minute DVD were ascertained.
From 44 MAP patients who developed &gt; or = 1 CRCs, 42 of 58 tumours were analyzed histologically and 35 immunohistochemically for p53 and beta-catenin. Cell densities of CD3, CD8, CD57, and granzyme B positive lymphocytes were determined. KRAS2, the mutation cluster region (MCR) of APC, p53, and SMAD4 were analyzed for somatic mutations.
Data are drawn from a longitudinal, 6 months observational, pragmatic study of the effects and experience of shiatsu within three European countries (Austria, Spain and the UK). Client postal questionnaires included: advice received, changes made 6 months later, clients 'hopes' from having shiatsu and features of the client-practitioner relationship.
156 non-demented participants in the brain donation programme of the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC-CFAS) were included in this study. Neuropathological examination was based on the CERAD protocol; pathologies of interest were amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, Lewy bodies, vascular disease and neuronal loss. Self-reported functional ability was scored according to a combined activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living scale.
Data were obtained from the records of 3,217 patients randomly sampled from 5,649 patients with COPD in 38 general practices in Rotherham, UK. Severity of airflow obstruction was categorised by FEV1 (% predicted) according to NICE guidelines. This was compared with clinician recorded COPD severity. The proportion of patients whose spirometry met BTS standards was calculated in each practice using a random sub-sample of 761 patients. The Spearman rank correlation between practice level QOF spirometry achievement and performance against BTS spirometry standards was calculated.
Study Tool: We developed a semi-structured interview guide to elicit the knowledge, attitudes, and perspectives of Egyptians regarding medical research.
We recruited individuals from the outpatient settings (public and private) at Ain Shams University in Cairo, Egypt.
Interviews were taped, transcribed, and translated. We analyzed the content of the transcribed text to identify the presence of a TM, defined in one of two ways: TM1 = inaccurate beliefs about how individualized care can be compromised by the procedures in the research and TM2 = inaccurate appraisal of benefit obtained from the research study.
97 human DNA samples were obtained which included 24 patients with familial PAH, 18 obligate carriers (BMPR2 mutation positive), 20 sporadic PAH patients, and 35 controls. Two sets of primers were designed within the CNV, and two sets of control primers were designed outside the CNV. Quantitative PCR was performed to quantify genomic copies of CNV and control sequences.
To test this hypothesis we set out to investigate whether mtDNA genetic variants will be differentially associated with T2DM depending on the diabetes status of the parents. To this end, association of mtDNA genetic backgrounds (haplogroups) with T2DM was assessed in 1055 Jewish patients with and without T2DM parents ('DP' and 'HP', respectively).
Female Wistar rats were OVX- or sham-operated at 40 weeks of age. Twelve weeks post-surgery, rats were randomized into seven groups: 1) sham + vehicle, 2) OVX + vehicle, 3) OVX + ALF 0.025 microg/kg/day, 4) OVX + ALF 0.05 microg, 5) OVX + RIS 0.3 mg, 6) OVX + RIS 3.0 mg, 7) OVX + ALF 0.025 microg + RIS 0.3 mg. Each drug was administered orally five times a week for 12 weeks. After treatment, we evaluated the mechanical properties of the lumbar vertebra and femoral midshaft. In the lumbar vertebra, structural and material analyses were performed using micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) and microbeam X-ray diffraction (micro-XRD), respectively. Biochemical markers in serum and urine were also determined.
In a qualitative study design, focus groups were established consisting of general practitioners, geriatricians, palliative care physicians, palliative care nurses and general nurses (a total of 29 participants). The group discussions were recorded, transcribed, coded and analysed using the methodological approach of Qualitative Description.
Using data from a large and ongoing Demographic Surveillance System, 41,517 adults, enumerated in bi-annual rounds between 2001 and 2005, and aged 18 to 60 years were categorized into four groups: external in-migrants, internal migrants, out-migrants and residents. The risk of dying by migration status was quantified by Cox proportional hazard regression. In a sub-group analysis of 1212 deaths which occurred in 2000 - 2001 and for which cause of death information was available, the relationship between migration status and dying from AIDS was examined in logistic regression.
A longitudinal, non-controlled design was used. The programme consisted of two weekly exercise sessions and one weekly cognitive session during 12 weeks. The main outcome measures were body mass index, blood pressure, cardiorespiratory fitness, abdominal muscle strength, and low back and hamstring flexibility. Potential determinants of change in physical health were demographic variables, psychological variables (self-esteem, mastery, and kinesiophobia), and self-perceived health.
In a randomized, controlled, multicenter trial, we are evaluating the effectiveness of CBT/relaxation, of physical exercise and of these two program elements combined, in reducing menopausal symptoms, improving sexual functioning, reducing emotional distress, and in improving the health-related quality of life of younger breast cancer patients who experience treatment-induced menopause. 325 breast cancer patients (aged &lt; 50) are being recruited from hospitals in the Amsterdam region, and randomly allocated to one of the three treatment groups or a 'waiting list' control group. Self-administered questionnaires are completed by the patients at baseline, and at 12 weeks (T1) and 6 months (T2) post-study entry. Upon completion of the study, women assigned to the control group will be given the choice of undergoing either the CBT or physical exercise program.
Prospective matched comparison study.
54 youth service sites in England.
Young people (n=2724) aged 13-15 years at baseline deemed by professionals as at risk of teenage pregnancy, substance misuse, or school exclusion or to be vulnerable.
Intensive, multicomponent youth development programme including sex and drugs education (Young People's Development Programme) versus standard youth provision.
Various, including pregnancy, weekly cannabis use, and monthly drunkenness at 18 months.
Prospective open cohort study.
274 practices from England and Wales contributing to the THIN database.
1.07 million patients, registered between 1 January 1995 and 1 April 2006, aged 35-74 years (5.4 million person years) with 43 990 cardiovascular events.
First diagnosis of cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, coronary heart disease, stroke, and transient ischaemic attack) recorded in general practice records.
Charts of 31 consecutive patients who underwent surgery in the pst 5 years for restrictive strabismus secondary to thyroid ophthalmopathy were retrospectively reviewed. All surgery was performed by recession and reattachment of the muscle to the globe, allowing for no postoperative adjustment. Standard doses were used for all primary surgery and slightly modified in some cases of reoperation, but the general principal was from a standard published nomogram.
Thisis a report of a patient who underwent re-shaping and attachment of Tenon's capsule to the original insertion of the medial rectus muscle that ruptured during attempted medial rectus recession for longstanding esotropia with medial rectus restriction. The procedure was done immediately following the loss and failure to retrieve the lost muscle.
Case report.
A 4 year old boy underwent a successful left superior oblique tuck for a left superior oblique palsy. Eleven months after surgery, the non-absorbable suture used forf the tuck extruded coincidentally with ocular trauma. The suture was slightly adherent to a suture granuloma in the supranasal quadrant of the left eye and removed without loss of surgical effect of the superior oblique tuck.
One thousand one hundred and twenty four primary school pupils participated, and results for key stage 3 (KS3) English and GCSE English Language, for 3,493 Year 10 and 3,697 Year 12 secondary school pupils, respectively, were obtained.
Primary school pupils were individually assessed using standardised reading and spelling tests, as well as tests of motor skill. They were also assessed using a standardised group reading test in their class groups. For the secondary school pupils, the results for two year cohorts, in KS3 English and GCSE English language, respectively, were analysed.
Eight schools were selected as willing to test their Y9 or Y8 classes on either the Pendulum (in 2007) or the Equilibrium in the Balance tests (in 2006), giving 39 classes on which to make the comparison with 1976 performance.
Regression of the pupils' class mean on each formal test on either the class's 2004 MidYIS or nferCAT standardized scores, and computing the regression at IQ = 100 allows comparison with that found in 1976.
Three groups (i.e. first-year, second-year, and third-year students) in two different curricula (i.e. conventional, lecture-based and constructivist, problem-based) were tested.
A cross-sectional design was used. Students' conceptions of constructivist activities (i.e. knowledge construction, cooperative learning, self-regulation, use of authentic problems, self-perceived inability to learn, and motivation to learn) were measured by a questionnaire. Data were analyzed using a two-way multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA).
Four hundred and ten undergraduate students (263 males, 147 females), aged from 17 to 26 years old (M=19.73, SD=1.46) were volunteers for the present study.
Students completed measures of coping, implicit theories of academic ability, and perception of control over academic examinations during regular classes in the first term of the university year.
The sample for this study was 63 teacher education students who studied in groups of three to five during three collaborative learning tasks.
Students' interpretations of experienced social challenges and their attempts to regulate emotions evoked by these challenges were collected following each task using the Adaptive Instrument for the Regulation of Emotions.
Four hundred and eighty-two students in the eighth grade of secondary education.
Two curriculum units for dialogic citizenship education were developed and implemented. The two curriculum units differed in the balance between group work and whole-class teaching. Students' ability to justify an opinion was assessed by means of short essays written by students on a moral issue. The effectiveness of both curriculum units was compared with regular history classes.
The sample consisted of 564 students (15-18 years of age) in vocational and general educational courses from one upper secondary school in western Norway.
The study was conducted as a survey. All data were based on adolescent reports, except for absence data, which were provided by the school.
In two classroom experiments, sixth-grade students from two schools participated (N=77 and 26).
Students completed six decimal lessons on an intelligent-tutoring systems. In the iterative condition, lessons cycled between concept and procedure lessons. In the concepts-first condition, all concept lessons were presented before introducing the procedure lessons.
For Study 1, 217 undergraduate students enrolled in educational psychology courses participated. Thirty-four were male and 181 were female (two did not respond). Participants completed the AGQ in the context of their educational psychology class. For Study 2, 126 undergraduate students enrolled in educational psychology courses participated. Thirty were male and 95 were female (one did not respond). Participants completed the PALS in the context of their educational psychology class.
Participants were 2,213 postgraduate research students of a large, research-intensive Australian university.
128 patients operated on by a single surgeon from July 2006 to December 2008 were reviewed for complications, pain, and function. A group of single incision, minimally invasive standard total hip replacements (106 cases) in 2008 was used for comparison of the same outcomes.
The specific question asked was whether resurfacing patients had differences in postoperative activity level, clinical outcomes, or rate of revisions, as compared to a matched cohort of patients treated with conventional THA. Thirty-three patients (23 men and 10 women) who were treated with resurfacing arthroplasties were matched to a cohort of patients who underwent conventional hip arthroplasty by gender, age, body mass index (BMI), and preoperative activity level. Mean preoperative Harris hip scores and length of follow-up were similar for the two groups. Postoperative weighted activity scores, Harris hip scores, patient satisfaction score, pain scores, and revision rates were evaluated at a mean final follow-up of 42 months (range, 25 to 68 months) for the resurfacing group and 45 months (range, 24 to 67 months) for the conventional hip group, and analyzed for differences.
A comprehensive review was performed of the published literature that directly compared total hip arthroplasty and resurfacing hip arthroplasty and that considered basic science, radiographic, and clinical studies.
Fifteen resurfacing femoral components were sectioned and the slices were radiographed and photographed, and the amount and distribution of cement were examined and measured. Cases representative of the evolving cementing techniques were examined in detail.
Sixty-nine consecutive hips in 57 patients with a minimum of 2 years clinical and radiographic follow-up were evaluated. Both acetabular and femoral component positions and postsurgical changes in the femoral neck and acetabulum were recorded.
At the Honolulu Heart Program's fourth examination in 1991 to 1993, arthritis status was assessed among a cohort of 3741 Japanese-American males, ages 71 to 93 years. Arthritis was determined by self-report of physician diagnosis, and subjects were divided into two groups: current arthritis and no current arthritis. Eight years of follow-up data are available for incident coronary heart disease (CHD) in 2777 subjects free of CHD at baseline. Age-adjusted rates of incident CHD and means of cardiovascular risk factors were compared in each group. Cox proportional hazards models were used to calculate relative risks, adjusting for common cardiovascular risk factors, alcohol, and use of aspirin or NSAIDs, or both.
A single-centre retrospective review identified 53 patients (5.1 to 17.5 years of age) with structurally normal hearts who had undergone 65 graded treadmill exercise tests in the setting of either documented SVT with normal resting electrocardiograms (n=30) or ventricular preexcitation (n=23). Twenty-five patients (13 pre-excited and 12 nonpreexcited) had exercise-related symptoms. SVT induction during exercise testing was assessed in relation to pre-excitation and the patient's history of exercise-induced symptoms.
Forty-two patients with the metabolic syndrome and 40 age matched control subjects without the metabolic syndrome were included in the study. All subjects had normal coronary arteries. Diagnosis of the metabolic syndrome was based on the International Diabetes Federation guidelines published in 2005. Ascending AP was estimated as the ratio of aortic PP to mean blood pressure.
Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Western blot were used to quantitate the messenger RNA and protein of alpha(1)-AR and ATR subtypes, respectively, in the left ventricles of three- (young adult), 12- (middle age), 18- (presenescent) and 24-month-old (senescent) Wistar rats.
PubMed, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature and Medscape searches of all available English language articles from 1983 to 2006 were performed. Search terms included 'amiodarone -induced thyrotoxicosis', 'complications', 'management', 'treatment' and 'colour flow Dopper sonography'.
A 45-year-old man with an occluded left anterior descending artery and a moderately stenotic circumflex artery underwent simultaneous integrated coronary revascularization. Bivalirudin was used to achieve anticoagulation for the duration of the procedure. The patient was asymptomatic with excellent patency of both the bypass graft and the stented circumflex artery via angiography at 10 months.
Patients underwent treadmill exercise or dobutamine PET MPI. Images were assessed qualitatively and semiquantitatively. PET results were categorized as normal (summed stress score [SSS] of less than 4), abnormal (SSS of 4 or greater) or inconclusive (SSS of less than 4 and submaximal peak stress heart rate). Patient follow-up (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction [MI] and/or late revascularization) was performed.
The study population consisted of 1407 patients who underwent cardiac catheterization between 1992 and 1996. The median follow-up period was 9.7 years (interquartile range 6.1 to 11.1 years) and the mortality status as of December 31, 2004 was available for all patients.
Multiple imputation was applied to cardiac MRI data that were previously analyzed using a complete case approach. The model variables - 10 traditional cardiovascular risk factors and five sociodemographic variables - were used as a basis for imputation. Men and women were imputed separately. The primary focus was assessing the change in the cardiovascular predictors of left ventricular geometry and systolic function.
A total of 264 men and women, with CRP levels of 2 mg/L or greater and no history of cardiovascular disease, were enrolled in a 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Participants were randomly assigned to receive 10 mg/day of ramipril (n=132) or placebo (n=132) for 12 weeks. The main outcome measure was the change in CRP levels from baseline to 12 weeks in the ramipril- versus placebo treated patients.
Celacade treatment was administered 14 days before coronary artery ligation and monthly after the surgery. Cytokine expression in cardiac tissue was measured on days 1 and 7 by ELISA in sham rats and in rats with MI (with or without Celacade treatment). Echocardiograms were obtained serially for 16 weeks. Force and sarcomere length (SL) were measured by strain gauge and laser diffraction in isolated right ventricle trabeculas at 16 weeks. The inotropic effect of pacing on force was quantified as F5 Hz/0.5 Hz. Diastolic dysfunction was quantified as the root mean square of spontaneous SL fluctuations.
Hearts from CVB3-infected (n=14), sham-infected (n=14) and CVB3-infected BALB/c mice treated with IL-15 (n=6) or a competitive IL-15 fusion protein (n=6) were analyzed for hemodynamic function, cellular infiltrates and myocardial collagen content.
Eight hospitals in different regions of Saudi Arabia were involved in the pilot phase of the registry, from December 2005 to July 2006. The study patients included individuals with ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), non-STEMI and unstable angina.
Ten patients with CMI and syringomyelia, operated between 2004 and 2006, formed this prospective series. All cases underwent foramen magnum decompression of 3 x 3 cm area with C1-C2 (partial) laminectomy, resection of foramen magnum fibrous band, excision of external dura, delamination and widening of internal dura with longitudinal incisions.
Using death records from the National Center for Health Statistics, we calculated monthly mortality rates for persons with PF and developed a multivariable model to determine if these mortality rates exhibited seasonal variation.
We conducted a 6-month randomized, double-blind study in patients undergoing thoracotomy for minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass or for lung tumor resection. After extubation, when objectively awake (&gt;or= 5/10 visual analogue scale [VAS]) and complaining of pain (&gt;or= 5/10 VAS), patients were connected to patient-controlled IV analgesia delivering 1.5 mg of morphine plus saline solution (MO) or 1.0 mg of morphine plus a 5-mg ketamine bolus (MK), with a 7-min lockout time. Rescue IM diclofenac, 75 mg, was available. Follow-up lasted 4 h.
A prospective, randomized trial.
Two hundred two patients with PPLs and positive EBUS findings were enrolled. They were randomly classified into two groups. In the EBUS conventional diagnostic procedures (CDPs) group (103 patients), both transbronchial biopsy (TBB) and bronchial washing (BW) were performed. In the EBUS-TBNA plus CDPs group (99 patients), TBNA, TBB, and BW were performed. The diagnostic yield in each group was compared.
We evaluated 122 consecutive patients referred for diagnosis and treatment of PH and compared the prevalence of features of the MS between patients with PVH and those with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). We also compared clinical and hemodynamic characteristics between these two groups.
Nineteen asthmatic nonsmokers (ANSs) and 13 asthmatic smokers (ASMs) underwent BAL. AMs were cultured with or without dexamethasone, 0.1 to 1,000 nmol/L, for 2 h before lipopolysaccharide (LPS) [1 microg/mL] stimulation. After 6 h, supernatants were harvested for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and messenger RNA was collected for real-time (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
In this pilot study, we examined a panel of circulating inflammatory biomarkers associated with CVD in "at-risk" women during the smoking cessation program. Forty-six women enrolled in a smoking cessation program consented to attend four study visits over 6 to 7 weeks. Health/medical information and blood were collected at each visit. Circulating levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin (IL)-6, soluble TNF receptor (sTNFR)-I, sTNFR-II, and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule (sVCAM)-1 were measured, and changes between baseline levels (visit 1, while smoking) and visits 2 through 4 were determined.
In our study, 206 nonobese habitually snoring children with polysomnographically diagnosed obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) were matched for age, gender, ethnicity, and obstructive apnea-hypopnea index (OAHI) to 206 obese children. Size estimates of tonsils and adenoids, and Mallampati class scores were obtained, and allowed for the assessment of potential relationships between anatomic factors and obesity in pediatric OSA.
Lung function (FEV(1)), FeNO, and pH in argon-deaerated EBC were measured before and at intervals up to 30 days after a specific inhalation challenge in 15 subjects with isocyanate asthma, in 24 not sensitized control subjects exposed to isocyanates, and in 3 nonasthmatic subjects with rhinitis induced by isocyanate. Induced sputum was collected before and 24 h after isocyanate exposure.
A cohort of 110 IPF patients was evaluated. Clinical data were collected from clinical charts. High-resolution CT (HRCT) scans were examined by an expert blinded to clinical data, and patients were classified into the following two groups: patients with IPF with emphysema; and patients with IPF without emphysema. The Kaplan-Meier method, log-rank test, and Cox regression model were used for statistical analyses.
From the emergency department, 82 adult patients with pleural effusions were enrolled in this prospective study and divided into the following two groups: the PPPE group (n = 45); and the non-PPPE group (n = 37). Levels of pleural fluid (PF) PCT and serum (S) PCT were determined in all patients after study enrollment as well as on day 3 only in the PPPE group by a newly developed time-resolved, amplified, cryptate emission assay.
A systematic search was performed of online databases for randomized controlled trials evaluating the antiinflammatory effects of the following: (1) LABAs compared to placebo; and (2) a LABA plus ICS vs ICS alone in adults and children with asthma. Inflammatory outcome measures included cell counts and markers of cell activation in sputum, BAL fluid, bronchial biopsy specimens, serum, and exhaled nitric oxide (ENO). Data were independently extracted by two study investigators and analyzed to generate standardized mean differences using either a fixed or random-effects metaanalysis depending on the degree of heterogeneity.
SBPV and HRV were recorded during 5 min of controlled breathing in men and women who were 70 years of age. FEV(1) and VC were recorded in 901 subjects. Of them, information on HRV and SBPV was available in 820 and 736 subjects, respectively. Measures of autonomic function, that is, SBPV in the low-frequency (LF) and high-frequency (HF) domains, HRV, and baroreceptor sensitivity (BRS), were studied in sex-specific quartiles of FEV(1) and VC.
A retrospective review of 100 patients (CVD-UIP, 39 patients; IPF/UIP, 61 patients) with UIP pattern diagnosed by surgical lung biopsy at one tertiary referral center.
Three hundred forty-one patients were hospitalized for the first time because of a COPD exacerbation in nine teaching hospitals in Spain. COPD diagnosis was confirmed by spirometry under stable conditions. Physical activity before the first COPD hospitalization was measured using the Yale questionnaire. The following outcome variables were studied under stable conditions: dyspnea, nutritional status, complete lung function tests, respiratory and peripheral muscle strength, bronchial colonization, and systemic inflammation.
We analyzed trends in AIDS-associated PCP hospital discharges using the National Hospital Discharge Surveys between 1986 and 2005.
We examined hemodynamic data from the 11,523 unique patients undergoing simultaneous right-heart and left-heart catheterization at a large academic center from 1998 to 2007.
In a prospective, multicenter cohort study of 376 patients who had undergone lung transplantation between 2002 and 2007, we measured soluble P-selectin levels before lung transplantation and at 6 and 24 h after lung reperfusion in 20 patients with grade III PGD (Pao(2)/fraction of inspired oxygen, &lt; 200 mm Hg [with alveolar infiltrates seen on chest radiographs]) at 72 h after transplantation and 61 control subjects without PGD.
This multicenter, mixed qualitative and quantitative study took place at three hospitals in California from 2006 to 2007. We conducted semistructured interviews with surrogate decision makers for 50 patients who were critically ill and incapacitated that addressed their beliefs about medical futility and inductively developed an organizing framework to describe these beliefs. We used a hypothetical scenario with a modified time-trade-off design to examine the relationship between a patient's prognosis and a surrogate's willingness to withdraw life support. We used a mixed-effects regression model to examine the association between surrogates' attitudes about futility and their willingness to limit life support in the face of a very poor prognosis. Validation methods included the use and integration of multiple data sources, multidisciplinary analysis, and member checking.
Adopting a societal perspective, we developed a theoretical decision model to determine the cost-effectiveness of LPV compared to non-LPV care. Model inputs were derived from the literature and a large population-based cohort of patients with ALI. Cost-effectiveness was determined as the cost per life saved and the cost per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained.
Eighteen children completed a shortened and a standard AMP challenge, and 20 children completed repeated shortened AMP challenges. The children inhaled nebulized AMP tidally for 2 min, following which the presence of wheeze and pulse oximetric saturation (Spo(2)) was recorded prior to FOT measurement. Testing continued until the maximum dose was reached or until wheeze, a decrease in Spo(2) to &lt; 90%, or an increase in respiratory resistance at 8 Hz of 2.0 hPa/s/L or 30% was noted. Concordance was assessed as a binary response, and agreement in provocation concentrations (PCs) causing a response was assessed with intraclass correlations.
A retrospective analysis was performed at Barnes-Jewish Hospital (St. Louis, MO) and in the medical ICU of Mayo Medical Center (Rochester, MN). Patients hospitalized with septic shock were enrolled into the study if they met the American-European Consensus definition of ALI within 72 h of septic shock onset. Adequate initial fluid resuscitation (AIFR) was defined as the administration of an initial fluid bolus of &gt;or= 20 mL/kg prior to and achievement of a central venous pressure of &gt;or= 8 mm Hg within 6 h after the onset of therapy with vasopressors. Conservative late fluid management (CLFM) was defined as even-to-negative fluid balance measured on at least 2 consecutive days during the first 7 days after septic shock onset.
A series of 60 thymic neoplasms was reviewed and classified according to the World Health Organization (WHO) scheme. Key clinical information, including Masaoka stage, recurrence-free survival (RFS), and overall survival (OS) was obtained. The percentage and staining intensity of listed markers were recorded. The correlation of markers and clinicopathologic variables was statistically analyzed using the Fisher exact test and log-rank test.
Bile acid levels were measured by spectrophotometric enzymatic assay, and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry was used to quantify the major bile acids. Alveolar cells were grown on modified air-liquid interface culture inserts, and bile acids were then employed to stimulate the cells. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Western blots were used to determine the involved gene expression and protein levels.
This is a register-linkage case-control study of Finnish public sector employees who had received a diagnosis of sleep apnea between 1995 and 2005 (n = 957) and randomly selected control subjects who had not received a diagnosis of sleep apnea (n = 4,785), matched for age, gender, socioeconomic position, type of employment, and organization. The annual sum of lost workdays, due to either medically certified sickness absences or disability pensions prior to diagnosis, was calculated for each participant (mean follow-up time, 5 years).
We used a post-bronchodilator FEV(1)/FVC ratio of &lt; 0.70 to define COPD. Exacerbation was self-reported and defined by symptoms (deterioration of breathing symptoms that affected usual daily activities or caused missed work).
Between 2001 and 2004, we performed a retrospective, observational study of 11,295 ICU patients from 35 hospitals in the California Intensive Care Outcomes Project. We compared the accuracy of the following three LOS models: a recalibrated acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE) IV-LOS model; and models developed using risk factors in the mortality probability model III at zero hours (MPM(0)) and the simplified acute physiology score (SAPS) II mortality prediction model. We evaluated models by calculating the following: (1) grouped coefficients of determination; (2) differences between observed and predicted LOS across subgroups; and (3) intraclass correlations of observed/expected LOS ratios between models.
In this article, we systematically review the literature that addresses the effects of NMES applied to the muscles of ambulation. We focused on the effects of NMES on strength, exercise capacity, and disease-specific health status in patients with CHF or COPD. We also address the methodological quality of the reported studies as well as the safety of NMES. Manuscripts published prior to December 2007 were identified by searching the Medline/PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, CINAHL, and Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro) databases.
We examined 5,633 (projected, 62.4 million) US adults (age range, 18 to 79 years) in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, who were never-smokers and were without known cardiovascular or obstructive lung disease. Cox regression (adjusted for age, sex, and ethnicity) was used to examine all-cause mortality risk across FVC categories (FVC: low, &lt;or= 85% predicted; intermediate, 86 to 94% predicted; and high, &gt;or= 95% predicted) among those with MetS, DM, or neither disease.
Three months after the CLIP Study completion, participants and parents returned mailed surveys that assessed post-study lens purchase and symptoms related to contact lens wear if contact lenses wear had been continued. Responses were compared between the children and teens using chi(2) or Fisher's exact test.
A retrospective non-comparative case series of 14 consecutive patients (22 eyes) who were referred to one senior optometrist for the fitting of S-LIM contact lenses at Moorfields Eye Hospital. The cases comprised of 11 patients (17 eyes) with keratoconus, 1 patient (2 eyes) post-surgical ectasia from previous LASIK, 1 (1 eye) post-graft patient, and 1 patient (2 eyes) who required corneal protection secondary to lagophthalmos. These patients had failed previously with other lens designs because of lens intolerance, unstable vision, chronic 3 and 9 o'clock corneal staining, and inadequate corneal protection for the patient with lagophthalmos. A conventional method of using diagnostic lenses with fluorescein assessment was adopted in fitting the S-LIM lenses.
Comparison of the effect of MPS A (Renu MultiPlus, Bausch &amp; Lomb), MPS B (OPTI-FREE Express, Alcon), MPS C (AQuify, CibaVision), and MPS D (OPTI-FREE RepleniSH, Alcon) on cell viability was performed by quantifying cellular ATP content, resazurin reduction, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in transformed human corneal epithelial cells (HCEpiC) and primary bovine corneal epithelial cells (BCEpiC).
An acrylic resin model was used. The central incisors simulated injured teeth, with increased vertical and horizontal mobility. The lateral incisors and canines stimulated uninjured teeth. Tooth mobility was measured with the Periotest device. Vertical and horizontal measurements were made before and after splinting, and the difference between values was defined as the splint effect. We evaluated 4 composite splints, 3 wire-composite splints, a titanium trauma splint, a titanium ring splint, a bracket splint, and 2 Schuchardt splints
The sample included 100 individuals with a medical diagnosis of CP (SG) aged 1-15 years (mean 7 years 2 months +/-SD 3 years 4 months) and 100 non-disabled individuals (CG), aged 1-15 years (mean 7 years 5 months +/- SD 4 years 0 month), presenting the same socioeconomic level as SG. Data were collected through clinical examinations according to Andreasen criteria and interviews.
The study was conducted on five different groups of professionals (elementary school teachers, physical education professionals, bank employees, dental doctors, and pediatricians) from the city of Brasília, DF, Brazil. The professionals attended a lecture and were evaluated by a questionnaire applied twice, before and after the lecture.
Indifferently using m-phones of different brands, and a variety of microscopic preparations, images were taken without the use of any adaptor simply approaching the lens of the mobile cell phone camera to the ocular of common optical microscopes, and subsequently sent via Multimedia Messaging Services (MMS) to distant reference centres for tele-diagnosis. Access to MMS service was reviewed with specific reference to the African information communication technology (ICT) market.
Criteria for practice-based teaching were developed at a workshop at a national conference. An online Delphi questionnaire invited educationalists to label these criteria as 'essential', 'desirable' or 'unnecessary' for 'occasional', 'intensive' and 'foundation year' teaching. Two rounds of the Delphi were completed. The views about the criteria of a range of stakeholders were explored using focus groups and telephone interviews.
This study used focus group interviews to compare and contrast the expectations and experiences of three distinct groups: General practitioners (GPs) who completed the traditional three-year training programme and were interviewed after one year of independent practice. GPRs who were the first entrants into the new extended year of training who were interviewed at the beginning and at the end of the year. GP trainers who were the first trainers involved in the extended year of training who were also interviewed at the beginning and at the end of the year.
Forty patients scheduled for abdominal surgery aged 30-70 years were enrolled. The electrodes of both the cerebral state monitor and BIS were attached simultaneously. Anaesthesia was induced with midazolam and fentanyl, and was maintained with sevoflurane with 50% nitrous oxide in oxygen and intermittent epidural mepivacaine. During surgery, end-tidal sevoflurane concentration was kept at 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5% for more than 10 min to measure CSI and BIS.
In a randomized, double-blind multicentre study, 188 orthopaedic patients were randomized to receive intrathecally placebo, 0.1 mg morphine or 0.2 mg morphine in addition to 15 mg bupivacaine. The primary outcome parameter was the number of patients without any additional request for opioid during a period of 72 h after surgery.
We measured isometric tension of endothelium-denuded arterial rings from rat mesentery. The relaxing effects of ketamine, after rings were precontracted with noradrenaline (10 mumol l) or high KCl (70 mmol l), were examined. The effects of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5), a competitive NMDAr blocker that is structurally distinct from ketamine, were also examined. The relaxing effects of ketamine in the presence of AP-5 were compared with those in the absence of AP-5. The effects of NMDAr agonists N-methyl-D-aspartate and glutamate were analysed in order to examine the existence of a functional NMDAr.
The study participants comprised 40 patients for oral intubation and 20 patients for nasal intubation. Each group was then divided into control and Endoflex subgroups. In the oral intubation study, controls were intubated using a standard Macintosh-type laryngoscope with a conventional endotracheal tube with adjuvant use of a stylet, whereas the Endoflex group was intubated using a Macintosh-type laryngoscope with an Endoflex tube. In the nasal intubation study, controls were intubated by a standard Macintosh-type laryngoscope with an endotracheal tube for nasal intubation. Under direct vision, Magill forceps were used to guide the tip of the endotracheal tube into the glottis. Patients in the Endoflex group were intubated using a Macintosh-type laryngoscope with an Endoflex tube.
Thirty insulin-treated type 2 diabetic patients, 40-80 years of age, were subjected to femoral artery bypass or knee amputation under general anaesthesia. The insulin glargine group (n = 15) was treated with insulin glargine (two-thirds of the total daily insulin dose required) subcutaneous administration with 5% dextrose solution infusion. The GIK group (n = 15) was treated with GIK infusion (125 ml h). Blood glucose levels were checked every 30 min during anaesthesia and 1 h after extubation. Potassium was checked every 1 h during anaesthesia and 2-4 h after extubation. Statistical analysis was performed with unpaired t test.
Our study used a consecutive sample of 260 day surgery patients to explore possible relationships between personal traits, measured by a short Big Five scale, and postoperative recovery, measured by modified Quality of Recovery-40, on postoperative days 1, 7 and 14.
A 26-item survey questionnaire (organization of the maternity unit, preoperative evaluation, technical aspects describing regional or general anaesthesia, oxytocic and antibiotic drugs, postoperative analgesia) was distributed to all French obstetric units (excluding overseas).
Eighty-seven patients undergoing elective breast surgery with total i.v. anaesthesia (propofol/remifentanil) were randomized to three groups. Group para received 1 g i.v. paracetamol 20 min before and 4, 10 and 16 h after the end of the operation. Group meta and plac received 1 g i.v. metamizol or placebo, respectively, scheduled at the same time points. All patients had access to i.v. morphine on demand to achieve adequate pain relief.
Forty patients were enrolled for this prospective study. We recorded every adverse neurological event after arterial clamping and variations in parameters evaluated by the two monitoring systems in order to determine whether there was any correlation between TCD data and those obtained by regional cerebral saturation, the timing of detection of the adverse event in both clinical examination and instrumental data and the presence of any false positives or negatives in any of the two monitoring systems.
We performed a total of 84 medial branch blocks in 20 obese patients (body mass index, &gt;30 kg/m2) using ultrasound. We studied the success rate, measured depth to the facet joint, and assessed radiation dose and pain relief.
All prehospital patients who underwent CVC positioning by emergency medical services physicians in the greater area of Thessaloniki during a 2-year period were included. A two-lumen indwelling polyurethane 8F catheter was inserted using the Seldinger technique in all cases. Patients' demographics and underlying diseases, site of access, number of attempts, time spent for catheter placement, and insertion-related complications were recorded.
From July 2003 to February 2004, a prospective cohort study was conducted in an ED (Elbeuf Reference Hospital, Upper-Normandy region). Baseline data collection was performed during individual interview at inclusion. Waiting time in the ED was recorded. Patient satisfaction was assessed by telephone 1 month later. Questions included assessment of overall satisfaction and three different areas of satisfaction: quality of reception, patient-doctor communication, and delays.
One thousand fifty-nine consecutive surgical and medical patients entering the ED of the University Hospital Basel during an 11-day period were independently assessed by hospital admission staff without formal medical training, ED nursing staff, and ED physicians. Emergencies were classified by severity (intervention within minutes/hours/days) or by severity and resource utilization (immediate intervention with/without life-threatening condition, delayed intervention with high/low/no demand of resources). Emergency assessment and triage decision (surgical/medical, outpatient/inpatient treatment) were documented independently by all three ED staff groups.
Blood relatives and spouses of all adult patients presenting to our emergency department in Turkey between 7 January 2005 and 16 January 2005 were included in the study. Accompanying persons other than patients' relatives were excluded. Surveys were conducted using a structured face-to-face interview with the participants.
Creation of a website, which can be consulted 24 h a day by physicians from European community.
Data on CL material and design, care system, and ocular complications were recorded and statistically analyzed for CL wearers.
Four eye care practitioners licensed in the practice of optometry in each country were sent sets of limbal redness images that were printed from the Efron Grading Scale morphing program. Each set consisted of 18 images randomly selected over the range of 0 to 4, inclusive. Each image was printed on a separate page with the grade scale from 0 to 4 with 0.5 steps. Each practitioner received the same set of images that were packaged in random order. Seventy-two (72) grades were collected from each country, which exceeded the sample size estimates for both the between and within country objectives.
Twenty eyes of 20 patients underwent placement of 21 ProKera implants between March 2006 and July 2007 at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Patient demographics, indications for placement, and duration of ProKera retention were recorded. Outcomes measured included corneal epithelial healing, visual acuity, patient tolerance, and adverse events.
A patient of retinitis pigmentosa with spontaneous bilateral anterior in-the-bag subluxation of PCIOL was managed by IOL explantation followed by fibrin-glue-assisted sutureless PCIOL implantation. Two partial thickness limbal-based scleral flaps were created about 1.5 mm from the limbus under which sclerotomies were made. Intraocular lens explantation along with capsular bag was performed through the corneo-scleral tunnel incision. Single-piece rigid polymethylmethacrylate 6.5-mm optic IOL was introduced through the limbal wound with a McPherson forceps, both the IOL haptics were externalized under the scleral flap. The haptic ends were tucked in the scleral tunnel made with the 26G needle. Scleral flaps and the conjunctiva were closed with the fibrin glue.
Thirteen eyes of 13 patients who underwent DSAEK without preoperative corneal haze or scar obvious at the slit lamp, any ocular disease, and postoperative complication were included in the study. All patients were examined clinically and by CM 6 months after DSAEK.
Retrospective cohort study. Charts of patients diagnosed with HSV keratitis seen at the Cleveland Clinic between January 2001 and December 2004 were reviewed.
A package containing 20 patient surveys was sent to 309 eye care practitioners (ECPs) in the United States who had agreed to participate in the study. One thousand eight hundred fifty-nine completed surveys were received from 158 ECPs and 1,654 surveys were eligible for analysis. Questions related to patient demographics, lens type, lens wearing patterns, the ECP instructions for RF, and the actual patient reported RF. ECPs were asked to provide lens information and their recommendation for RF after the surveys had been completed and sealed in envelopes. All responses were anonymous.
A previously healthy 30-year-old man presented with bilateral decreased vision, redness, and irritation, beginning 1 week earlier. The patient had been treated with moxifloxocin for 1 week before presentation without improvement. Bacterial staining cultures were performed from corneal scrapings, contact lenses, contact lens case, and solution. Preliminary culture results and antibiotic sensitivities were generated using an automated identification system. Positive results from the contact lens, case, and solution were confirmed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
In this open-label, bilateral, 3-month dispensing study, 59 children (8-11 years) were fit with etafilcon A spherical or toric daily disposable lenses (1-DAY ACUVUE or 1-DAY ACUVUE for ASTIGMATISM, Vistakon, Jacksonville, FL). All subjects were neophytes requiring visual correction in both eyes. The refractive inclusion criteria were plano to -9.00 diopter (D) with astigmatism of &lt; or =2.00DC in both eyes, or hyperopia of +0.50 to +6.00D with astigmatism of 0.75D or less. The subjects underwent follow-up evaluations, which included a questionnaire for parents and subjects, at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months.
Two groups of subjects, 15 with clinically diagnosed blepharitis (11 women and 5 men mol/L; age 60.9 +/- 12.5; range 41-79) and 15 age- and sex-matched controls (11 women and 5 men mol/L; age 60.7 +/- 12.6; range 40-78), were included in the study. Tear physiology was assessed by evaporimetry and interferometry and the meibomian glands by expression and meibography.
Patient with schizophrenia and tardive dyskinesia developed bilateral corneal edema while receiving chronic amantadine hydrochloride. Both eyes underwent successful phakic Descemet's stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty, and histopathologic examination of the excised host tissue was performed.
A total of 203 prophylactic-naive migraine/chronic migraine patients, 17 (8.4%) male, 186 (91.6%) female, aged 19 to 65 years were serially selected and asked to answer bidirectional visual numerical scales designed for this purpose, with 1 scale for each side effect. The question posed was: "How much would you accept or reject the following side effects to get rid of your migraine headaches?" The side effects listed were dry mouth, epigastric burning, low energy, tingling, somnolence, depression, tremor, insomnia, memory loss, sluggishness, weight gain, and weight loss.
Nineteen subjects having migraine with aura were studied using a 4-way crossover, open-label design. Each patient was asked to treat 8 consecutive attacks with 100 mg of sumatriptan RT: 3 attacks treated at a timing of the patient's discretion (baseline); 1 attack treated 4 hours after onset of pain (late); 2 attacks treated within 1 hour of onset of pain (early); 2 attacks treated during the aura phase - before the onset of pain (aura). Pain level and cutaneous allodynia were reported by the patients at the onset of pain, at the time of treatment, and 2 and 24 hours after treatment.
A lumbar laminectomy is performed, a strip of dura is resected, and the dural defect is closed. The resulting decrease in lumbar CSF volume is believed to increase intracranial CSF volume and pressure.
Forty-two patients suffering from frequent headaches (20 +/- 9 headache days/month; range: 8-30) were treated and evaluated in a 96-hour group program. The results were compared with the outcomes of the previous study. Subjects who had undergone either the 20-hour multidisciplinary program or the primary care were used as historical control groups.
In 11 patients with medically refractory migraine, the sphenopalatine fossa was accessed with a 20-gauge needle using the standard infrazygomatic transcoronoid approach under fluoroscopy. Patients underwent temporary unilateral electric stimulation of the SPG with a Medtronic 3057 test stimulation lead after induction of full-blown migraine. Both sham and active stimulations with different settings were carried out for &lt; or =60 minutes, and then the lead was removed.
Two replicate, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-attack crossover trials evaluated migraineurs who had discontinued a short-acting triptan in the past year because of poor response or intolerance. Patients were instructed to treat within 1 hour and while pain was mild.
Out of 22,000 pharmacies currently open in France, a questionnaire was proposed to a random sample of approximately 4000 pharmacies with at least 1 self-considered migraineur in the pharmacy staff who accepted to complete and return the questionnaire. The reality of migraine was assessed by the study questionnaire according to the International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd edition (ICHD-II) criteria. In addition, the study questionnaire inquired about subjects' demographics, headache characteristics, consumption of medications for headaches, subjects' satisfaction with the usual treatment of headaches and treatment effectiveness. Medication overuse was defined in terms of treatment days per month during the previous 3 months according to the ICHD-II criteria for medication overuse headache.
A structured questionnaire was administered to subjects with: episodic migraine (EM) (n = 30), chronic migraine (CM) (n = 24), and MOH with a previous history of EM (n = 33) and 29 control subjects. Psychiatric diagnoses were made by a senior psychiatrist blinded to the diagnosis of migraine. Psychiatric assessment of OCD illness was evaluated by means of The Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS).
Analyses were based on data from two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of pregabalin (studies 1056 and 1077). In a daily diary, patients reported the quality of their sleep on a numeric rating scale ranging from 0 ("best possible sleep") to 10 ("worst possible sleep"). Test re-test reliability of the Sleep Quality Scale was evaluated by computing intraclass correlation coefficients. Pearson correlation coefficients were computed between baseline Sleep Quality scores and baseline pain diary and Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sleep scores. Responsiveness to treatment was evaluated by standardized effect sizes computed as the difference between least squares mean changes in Sleep Quality scores in the pregabalin and placebo groups divided by the standard deviation of Sleep Quality scores across all patients at baseline.
Ninety-two persons with definite MS residing in the community were recruited from a tertiary hospital database. Patients completed the MSIS-29 as part of a larger study. Rasch analysis was undertaken to assess the psychometric properties of the MSIS-29.
The intervention consisted of six workshops, attended by 29 of 31 trained nurses and nurse attendants working on the paediatric ward. Parental satisfaction with nursing care was measured with 288 parents before and six weeks after the workshops, by means of an adapted Picker questionnaire. Two focus-group discussions were held with the workshop participants six months after the intervention.
Potential confounders influencing the intervention's success were identified by literature review, and grouped by healthcare setting specific change stages. An international multi-disciplinary (clinical, administrative, decision maker, management) panel evaluated these factors in a two-stage modified-delphi and nominal group process based on four domains: change readiness, evidence base, face validity, and clarity of definition.
A cohort study was conducted on 50 consecutive patients clinically diagnosed as cutaneous vasculitis in the dermatology outdoor; irrespective of age, sex and duration of the disease. Based on the clinical presentation, vasculitis was classified according to modified Gilliam's classification. All patients were subjected to a baseline workup consisting of complete hemogram, serum-creatinine levels, serum-urea, liver function tests, chest X-ray, urine (routine and microscopic) examination besides antistreptolysin O titer, Mantoux test, cryoglobulin levels, antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies and hepatitis B and C. Histopathological examination was done in all patients while immunofluorescence was done in 23 patients.
In a case-control setting, 150 clinically and histopathologically proven MF patients had been admitted to the tertiary referral skin center during a 10-year period and another 150 normal volunteers had been compared with each other for the presence of HTLV-1 infection. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to detect antibodies against HTLV-1, and positive results were confirmed with western blotting.
This is a prospective study which assesses the impacts of keloid on keloid patients. Consented patients who presented to the Plastic Surgery Clinic of the Lautech Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Nigeria were recruited into the study. A set of questionnaires were administered to all consented patients. The administered questionnaires were analyzed using SPSS version 10.
Pemphigus patients who had been treated with DCP therapy from 2001 to 2008 were prospectively and retrospectively analyzed.
In this cross-sectional study in male prisoners of Bandarabbas city, 230 prisoners were randomly selected. One hundred and five (45.67%) of them were diagnosed to be infected. They were also evaluated regarding age, duration of being imprisoned, skin color, site of lesion and its pigmentation change and any concomitant clinical manifestation such as pruritus, burning or cebure. Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test was used for data analysis.
The model was created using NetLogo. The hairs were modeled as agents oscillating between anagen and telogen. The variables were assigned based on published data whenever possible and the various paths the agent could take were coded as conditional statements. The improvement was assessed using an arbitrary index which takes into account the mean diameter and pigmentation along with the number and length of hairs visible above the surface. Few of the commonly encountered scenarios were simulated using the model.
Multiplex PCR was attempted to detect the opportunistic herpes viruses (HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV, EBV, and CMV), adenovirus and polyoma viruses (JC and BK) in three cocktails of PCR reactions. Subsequently, all the viruses detected were quantitated by testing using monoplex real time PCR. Whole blood samples collected between 2006 and 2007 from 68 treatment naïve HIV-1 infected and 30 normal healthy individuals were tested for these eight viruses. Among the 68 HIV-1 infected individuals 35 had CD4+ T cell count less than or equal to 200 while the other 33 had greater than 200 CD4+ T cells.
From March 2005 to December 2007, 14,597 specimens were processed using the MGIT 960 system and the results were compared with conventional L.J medium. We standardised r-nitro benzoic acid (PNBA) assay on MGIT 960 TB system for identification of M. tuberculosis complex and evaluated its usefulness by comparing the results with an in-house molecular assay and sequencing.
One hundred and twenty five blood samples suggestive of symptomatic congenital CMV infection were selected from samples received at NICD during the period June 2005-March 2007. A request to collect and send the urine samples of the selected babies was sent to the respective hospitals. Serum samples of the babies were tested for CMV-IgM antibodies using micro-capture ELISA. Mothers' serum samples were subjected to CMV-IgM and IgG class antibodies assay by commercial ELISA kits. DNA isolation and amplification was performed in urine samples and some of the serum samples using a commercial PCR kit for detection of HCMV. Blood and urine samples from 20 normal babies were included in the study.
A total of 34 isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) (22 rifampicin resistant, 11 rifampicin sensitive and one control H37Rv) strains were analysed by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing within the 157-bp region of the rpo B gene (Ala 500-Val 550).
The assay was done by sequencing the Pr and RT genes of the HIV-1 strains from 18 individuals failing ART. Analysis was carried out using Stanford HIV drug resistance database (SHDB). The sequences were also submitted to the calibrated population resistance tool of SHDB and Rega HIV-1 sub typing tool. Phylogenetic analysis and quality control were performed with Mega 4.
In this cross sectional, case-control study, 95 MEFs and 53 NP secretion specimens were obtained from 53 children. As a control group, 102 NP specimens were taken from children having an operation other than an otological disease. Conventional culture methods and multiplex-PCR method have been used to determine the etiology of OME; NP carriage between cases and control groups were compared using conventional culture methods. Pearson Chi-Square and Fisher's Exact tests were used in statistical analysis.
Data on AEs collected by our tertiary referral center for the years 2005 and 2006 was analyzed. The term 'elderly individuals' was defined as those aged &gt;or=58 years. An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence with a medicinal product in a patient or a clinical investigation, whether or not causally related.
Double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial; tertiary level neonatal unit.
A randomized controlled study was carried out in the neonatal ward of Children's Hospital, Tabriz, Iran, over a 1-year period. Sixty-eight healthy late pre-term infants readmitted with non-hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia were randomized to receive phototherapy and clofibrate (n= 35) or phototherapy and placebo (n= 33).
Chi-square test and independent sample 't' test.
Tuberculosis unit (TU) at District Tuberculosis Centre (DTC), Yavatmal, India.
Retrospective cohort study.
Data of patients registered for DOTS in the year 2004 were collected from the tuberculosis register.
Kaplan Meier plots and log rank tests to assess the survival pattern. Cox proportional hazards model for multivariate analysis.
One hundred clinically diagnosed T2DM patients and 160 healthy controls from the north Indian population were recruited for genetic association study.
Genomic DNA was extracted from blood and genotyped for the single nucleotide polymorphism SNPs of FokI (T/C) [rs2228570], BsmI (A/G) [rs1544410] and TaqI (C/T) [rs731236] by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis.
Genotype distribution and allelic frequencies were compared between patients and controls. Mean values and odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated using SPSS software (version 15.0).
A search was conducted in PubMed and Ovid for English language publications, using individual or linked search terms "adult-onset Still's disease," "adult Still's disease," "Still's disease," "AOSD," and other related terms, from 1996 to 2009, and the clinically relevant articles were subsequently selected.
We conducted a cross-sectional, venue-based study of women from socially-marginalized populations in three coastal Peruvian cities.
Arthritis was induced by intradermal injection of Collagen and Freund's adjuvant incomplete suspension at several sites on the back with a dose of 2 mg kg(-1) of body weight and boosted with 0.1 ml intradermally at the base of the tail. CIA rats were orally treated with 200 and 400 mg kg(-1) per oral of S. platensis from 0 to 45th day.
This paper gives an interdisciplinary and critical overview on the chemical, physiological, pharmacological and toxicological actions of the natural origin capsaicinoids (from the point of drug production) under conditions of acute, subacute and chronic administration in animal experiments and human observations, toxicology, pharmacokinetics). This interdisciplinary review covers the following main chapters: (1) physiological and pharmacological research tool by capsaicin in the animals and human beings, (2) capsaicin research in animals (including the acute, subacute toxicology and chronic toxicology metabolism, genotoxicology), (3) capsaicin observation with capsaicin in human beings.
A meta-analysis of recently published studies on fall prevention interventions was conducted. Measure of the overall effectiveness was the combined risk ratio for recurrent falls, whereas heterogeneity was explored via metaregression analyses.
Medical records of a sample of adults from the Seattle Longitudinal Study categorized into one of four age-group cohorts were examined. Data regarding participants' health risk behaviors were examined individually and cumulatively for predicting later CVD diagnosis.
Data from the 2003 American Community Survey were used to examine the associations of education and income, stratified by race and gender, with functional limitations and ADLs, in a sample of 16,870 non-Hispanic Blacks and 186,086 non-Hispanic Whites aged 55 to 74. Sequential logistic regressions were used to examine the relative contribution of income and education to racial disparities.
Patients hospitalized in an Internal Medicine and Geriatric Department on election day were included. The primary outcome was the turnout among registered inpatients, and secondary outcomes were Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores and reasons for abstention.
A subject-specific 3D model of the anterior vaginal wall and its supports were developed based on MRI geometry from a healthy nulliparous woman. It included simplified representations of the anterior vaginal wall, levator muscle, cardinal and uterosacral ligaments, arcus tendineus fascia pelvis and levator ani, paravaginal attachments, and the posterior compartment. This model was then imported into ABAQUS and tissue properties were assigned from the literature. An iterative process was used to refine anatomical assumptions until convergence was obtained between model behavior under increases of abdominal pressure up to 168 cm H(2)O and deformations observed on dynamic MRI.
Thirty patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting were randomized to PC-coated (PC group, n = 15) and noncoated (control group, n = 15) circuit groups. Clinical data, total blood loss, and pre- and postoperative platelet counts were recorded and IL-6 and TNF-alpha, CD41a, CD42b, and CD62p were measured at induction of anesthesia, after the initiation of CPB and at termination of CPB.
Between September 1997 and August 2006, of 1341 pediatric patients undergoing correction of congenital heart disease in our institution, 18 (1.3%) developed chylothorax postoperatively. Surgical procedures included tetralogy of Fallot repair in 10 patients, ventricular septal defect closure (one), atrial septal defect with pulmonary stenosis repair (one), Fontan procedure (three), coarctation of the aorta repair (one), aortopulmonary shunt (one), and ligation of patent ductus arteriosus in one patient. All patients followed a therapeutic protocol including complete drainage of chyle collection and controlled nutrition. Somatostatin was used adjunctively in six (33.3%) patients. Surgical intervention was reserved for persistent lymph leak despite maximal therapy. Following resolution of chylothorax, a medium-chain triglyceride diet was implemented for six weeks.
Thirty patients scheduled for elective coronary bypass surgery were included in the study. Patients were divided randomly into two groups as the control group (n = 15) who underwent a standard coronary bypass surgery without any additional medication and the study group (n = 15) who received 1 gm of methylprednisolone before CPB. Blood samples for analysis of serum NSE, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-10 were drawn before CPB, 4 and 24 hours after the end of extracorporeal circulation.
Patients (n = 224) undergoing elective CABG with cardiopulmonary bypass were prospectively randomized into two groups according to transfusion strategy: in group 1 (clinician-directed transfusion, n = 110) need for blood transfusion was based on clinician's discretion and standard coagulation tests and in group 2 (TEG algorithm group, n = 114) kaolin-activated (k) TEG-based algorithm-guided perioperative transfusion management. Transfusion, blood loss, and outcome data were recorded.
Between 2002 and 2006, 980 patients underwent early tracheal extubation (&lt;6 hours after surgery) and 1231 had conventional extubation (&gt; 6 hours after surgery, conventional group). Outcomes compared between the two groups included: (1) pneumonia, (2) sepsis, (3) intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay, (4) hospital length of stay, (5) ICU readmission, and (6) reintubation. Logistic regression analysis and propensity score adjustment were used to adjust for imbalances in the patients' preoperative characteristics.
In 23 consecutive patients (mean age = 69.2 +/- 1.9 years, gender = 62% male, ejection fraction [EF]= 50.4 +/- 2.1%) monoventricular stimulations (VVI) were tested with a constant pacing rate of 100 bpm. The impact of ventricular pacing on bypass graft flow (transit-time flow probe) and pulsatility index (PI) were measured after lead placement on the mid paraseptal region of the right (RVPS) and the left (LVPS) ventricle, on the right inferior wall (RVIW), and on the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT). In addition, hemodynamic parameters were measured. Patients served as their own control.
Between April 2002 and February 2007, eight patients underwent surgical repair of anomalous coronary artery arising from the opposite sinus of Valsalva and coursing between the aorta and pulmonary artery. Patients' age varied from two months to 28 years with a mean of 11.7 +/- 11.1 years.
Surgical repair involved unroofing the intramural segment of the anomalous coronary artery using cardiopulmonary bypass.
Case report and review of all published cases.
In a randomized, prospective study we evaluated 320 patients in two groups. Group I (n = 160) patients were the patients whose pleural cavity was intact while internal mammary artery (IMA) harvesting, and in group II (n = 160) the pleural cavity of the patients was opened. They matched in terms of postoperative respiratory functions and pain score.
Thirty eight patients scheduled for primary isolated coronary artery bypass grafting were included in this double blind, prospective, randomized, placebo controlled study. Tranexamic acid (TA) group (19 patients) received 1 gram of TA diluted in 100 ml normal saline. Placebo group (19 patients) received 100 ml of normal saline only. The solution was purred in the pericardial and mediastinal cavities.
Single-center, randomized, controlled study carried out at a university hospital.
Postinfarction patients are randomized into a training group (enrolled in a 6-month exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation program) and into a control group. HMGB1 levels are evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Following 60 and 180 min of hyperoxia treatment, rat hearts were isolated immediately (H60 and H180) or 24 h afterward (H60/24 and H180/24), and subjected to 30 min of regional ischemia followed by 120 min of reperfusion. Occurrence, number, and duration of arrhythmias were analyzed during ischemia and reperfusion. In addition, cardiac infarct size was also assessed.
In 27 patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction, we obtained admission cTnT, angiography at the time of intervention, and cardiovascular magnetic resonance after 3 days.
Data about the specialty choices of students classified in the 2008 NRE were analyzed. In addition, at the beginning of the 2008 to 2009 academic year, French medical students were asked to complete a questionnaire that asked about their year of medical school, their sex, their professional plans, and the reasons for the choice.
Over a 6-year period, 120 patients had a laparotomic conservative rectal excision with total mesorectal excision but without intersphincteric dissection, for cancer of the mid- and lower rectum: the colonic J-pouch anastomosis was hand-sewn for 49 and stapled for 71 patients. The functional results were assessed at 1 year, by a questionnaire completed by the patient.
The study included 27 patients (20 men and seven women, mean age: 63+/-13 years). Eleven patients had an intact AM, seven synchronous PMP (malignant appendiceal lesion in two of seven), six metachronous PMP (five with peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis and one with diffuse peritoneal adenomucinosis) and three a ruptured AM but not PMP. The incidence of mucin-secreting tumors observed (27 cases in 12 years in a region of 500 000 inhabitants) corresponds to a prevalence of approximately five cases per year per million inhabitants. Acute clinical pictures (7/27) were significantly more frequent for the malignant forms (5/7) (p&lt;0,02).
The studies included a computational comparative analysis of the genomic locus of sFlt1 across vertebrate species; an assessment of sFlt1 variants in human and rhesus cells and tissues; an analysis of sFlt1 variants transiently expressed in HeLa and COS-7 cells; an evaluation of the effect of hypoxia on sFlt1 expression in trophoblasts; and a comparison of placental sFlt1 expression between pregnancies complicated by preeclampsia and control pregnancies.
Patients were followed from the date of discontinuation to either relapse of hyperprolactinemia or the day of last prolactin test.
We conducted the study at an academic medical center.
Forty-six patients meeting Pituitary Society criteria (normoprolactinemic and with tumor volume reduction after 2 or more years of treatment) participated in the study.
After withdrawal, if prolactin returned above reference range, another measurement was obtained within 1 month, symptoms were assessed by questionnaire, and magnetic resonance imaging was performed.
We measured risk of and time to recurrence estimates as well as clinical predictors of recurrence.
We studied the expression of Tie-2, Ang-1, and Ang-2 by immunohistochemical techniques in surgical thyroid tissues from 17 patients with Graves' disease, 8 with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and 3 healthy glands. In addition, we explored the expression and function of Tie-2 in peripheral blood monocytes from 17 patients with Graves' disease, 11 with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and 14 healthy controls.
Phosphorylation and expression of kinases were studied in paired samples of OM and sc adipose tissue from lean and obese subjects of two different cohorts (n = 36 and n = 196) by Western and real-time PCR analyses. The association with fat distribution, macrophage infiltration, insulin sensitivity, and glucose metabolism was assessed by correlation analyses.
A total of 116 patients (mean age, 63 +/- 8 yr; 19 men and 97 women) who on May 1, 2008, had performed the 2-yr visit in a randomized study on mild pHPT (serum calcium at baseline, 2.69 +/- 0.11 mmol/liter) and where frozen samples were available from baseline and follow-up participated in the study.
The effect of decidualization on the contractile profile of the endometriotic cyst stromal cells and eutopic endometrial stromal cells with or without endometriosis in the three-dimensional collagen gel culture was investigated using laser scanning microscopy, collagen gel contraction assays, and Western blot analysis.
Wild-type and mutant Kir6.2/SUR1 channels were examined by heterologous expression in Xenopus oocytes.
We conducted an observational study in the Dallas Heart Study, a multiethnic, probability-based sample of Dallas County.
A total of 258 Chinese subjects [aged 55.1 +/- 12.5 yr; 120 males, 138 females; body mass index (BMI), 25.4 +/- 4.1 kg/m(2)] were randomly selected from the population-based Hong Kong Cardiovascular Risk Factor Prevalence Study, based on their BMI. Serum ZAG levels were determined with ELISA. The relationship between serum ZAG levels and cardiometabolic parameters was assessed.
Eleven young (age, 24 +/- 0.99 yr) and 11 older (64 +/- 2.4 yr) men participated in the study.
The study was conducted at a tertiary medical center.
The study consisted of GnRH-agonist down-regulation of the gonadal axis followed by fixed-dose testosterone (T) replacement (leuprolide/T clamp) and consecutive infusion of l-arginine and GHRH or GH-releasing peptide-2 (GHRP-2) to quantify peptide-secretagogue efficacies.
We conducted a controlled interventional study.
The study was conducted in a general clinical research center.
A total of 26 normal control (NC) and 26 hyperandrogenic (HA) girls were studied.
Frequent blood sampling was performed for 11 h to assess LH pulse frequency before and after 7 d of oral estradiol and P.
We measured the slope of the percentage reduction in LH pulse frequency as a function of d 7 P (slope).
This was a prospective observational study with median follow-up of 3.5 yr.
Community-dwelling, stroke-free older men were studied.
A total of 3443 men at least 70 yr of age participated in the study.
Baseline serum total testosterone, SHBG, and LH were assayed. Free testosterone was calculated using mass action equations. Incident stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) was recorded.
The effects of arzoxifene 20 mg/d on bone mineral density (BMD), uterine safety, and overall safety were studied in the FOUNDATION study, a 2-yr randomized, placebo-controlled trial including 331 postmenopausal women with normal to low bone mass.
We tested for association between 58 single nucleotide polymorphisms mapping to TCF7L2 and PCOS in 624 index (PCOS) cases and 553 control women of European ancestry. Furthermore, in the women with PCOS, we tested for association with seven reproductive and metabolic quantitative traits.
A prospective, self-controlled study was conducted at a university tertiary-care center.
Eight HH women (six idiopathic, two surgical) underwent ovarian stimulation with recombinant human (rh)FSH preceded or not by rhLH administration in two separate cycles. In one additional patient with idiopathic HH, pretreatment was conducted with recombinant human chorionic gonadotropin (rhCG) instead of rhLH.
Follicular development and serum hormone concentrations throughout LH-FSH and FSH treatment cycles were assessed.
Diverse molecular biology techniques were used.
We conducted a register study. Using the unique identification number of all Danes, we linked data from the Register of Medicinal Product Statistics and the Civil Registration register on an individual level. All dispensing of antithyroid medication from 1995 to 2007 was studied. The place of residency was used to divide patients into mildly and moderately iodine-deficient groups.
We measured the incident use of antithyroid medication.
Eight hyperandrogenic obese women with PCOS [age, 25 +/- 1 yr; body mass index (BMI), 32.0 +/- 1.6 kg/m(2)] and seven healthy BMI-matched controls participated. Studies were performed before and after a 16-wk exercise training program in women with PCOS and cross-sectionally in a group of BMI-matched controls.
Lipolysis was measured in vitro in isolated adipocytes and in vivo by microdialysis of sc abdominal adipose tissue before and during a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp.
Proliferative phase human endometrial biopsies were obtained from healthy donors and established as organ cultures or used to isolate ES cells. To establish endometriosis in the nude mouse, endometrial tissues were maintained in 1 nm estradiol (E) for 24 h and subsequently injected into ovariectomized nude mice. Mice (n = 37) were treated with E (8 mg, SILASTIC capsule implants; made in author laboratory) alone or with E plus simvastatin (5 or 25 mg/kg x d) for 10 d beginning 1 d after tissue injection (from three donors). Mice were killed and examined for disease. Effects of simvastatin on matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) were evaluated in cultures of ES cells.
The number and size of endometriotic implants were measured.
We conducted a cross-sectional study in a General Clinical Research Center.
Forty-five patients with prior acromegaly participated: 26 with GHD and 19 with GH sufficiency.
There were no interventions.
We evaluated quality of life, as measured by 1) the Quality of Life Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency Assessment (QoL-AGHDA); 2) the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36); and 3) the Symptom Questionnaire.
The randomized, unblinded clinical trial was conducted at two academic medical centers.
A total of 140 healthy male volunteers participated.
One hundred subjects were randomized initially (20 per group) to apply NES gel 2 or 4 mg, T gel 10 g, or T gel 10 g plus NES gel 2 or 4 mg daily for 20 d. Because only about half of the subjects in T plus NES 4 mg group suppressed serum gonadotropins to 0.5 IU/liter or less (suboptimal suppression), two additional groups of 20 men were randomized to apply daily T gel 10 g plus NES gel 6 or 8 mg.
Suppression of serum LH and FSH concentrations to 0.5 IU/liter or less after treatment was the main outcome variable.
This study was a preplanned subanalysis of 658 long-stay (at least a fifth day) ICU patients out of a large randomized controlled trial (n = 1200), studying the effects of IIT on the outcome of medical critical illness. Patients were allocated to either IIT (glycemia 80-110 mg/dl) or conventional insulin therapy (CIT) requiring insulin above a glycemia of 215 mg/dl. Different patterns of liver dysfunction were studied based on daily blood sample analysis, and biliary sludge was evaluated by ultrasonography.
Eight medical outpatients prescribed iv iron polymaltose were recruited. Plasma phosphate, 25(OH)D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)(2)D], PTH, FGF23, and urinary tubular reabsorption of phosphate were measured prior to iron administration and then weekly for a minimum of 3 wk.
We conducted a follow-up study.
We studied 67 patients with adequate biochemical control of acromegaly for a mean of almost 13 yr. Study parameters were the results of radiological assessment of the spine, hip, knee, and hand. Osteoarthritis was defined as radiological osteoarthritis using the scoring system developed by Kellgren and Lawrence. Correlations between potential factors of influence and osteoarthritis were performed by analysis of covariance and adjusted for age, gender, and body mass index.
This was a multicenter, community-based study, investigating novel biomarkers for vascular disease. Participants included 1293 African-Americans (AA) (64 +/- 9 yr) and 1197 non-Hispanic whites (NHW) (59 +/- 10 yr) belonging to hypertensive sibships.
Plasma copeptin levels were measured by an immunoluminometric assay. MetSyn was defined per Adult Treatment Panel III criteria. Generalized estimating equations were used to assess whether plasma copeptin was associated with measures of insulin resistance and MetSyn.
We studied CgA levels in hyperthyroidism. First, 38 hyperthyroid patients matched with 86 normal controls were studied after an overnight fast. Second, 30 if the 38 patients were followed up for 6 months with medical antithyroid drug therapy (carbimazole). In the first study, after 10-12 h overnight fasting, blood was collected for measurement of CgA, glucose, insulin, intact proinsulin, and thyroid function. These variables were remeasured in the second study for the patients after attainment of euthyroidism with the antithyroid drug carbimazole for 6 months.
Five patients (age, 43 yr +/- sd) with active acromegaly were studied on two occasions: before pegvisomant and after 4 wk of pegvisomant (20 mg daily sc). (2)H(5)-glycerol was infused overnight to measure overnight and early morning (basal) glycerol production rate (Ra). The next morning (2)H(2)-glucose was infused for 2 h before and throughout a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic (1.5 mU/kg x min insulin) clamp to measure basal glucose Ra and insulin-stimulated peripheral glucose disposal (Rd).
The "split ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid system" was used with RET51 as bait against a human brain expression library.
This was a cross-sectional study.
The study was conducted at the Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia, a referral center.
Fifteen young male adults with anorchia and 15 healthy young males were enrolled in the study. All of them completed the same set of questionnaires evaluating general health and psychological health as well as sexuality. All had androgen replacement treatment to induce puberty and maintain adult androgen effect.
General health, psychosocial, and psychosexual functionings according to the validated questionnaires were measured.
Haplotype tagging analysis across PPARD was performed in about 11,000 individuals from the Wellcome Trust U.K. Type 2 Diabetes Case Control Collection (Go-DARTS2).
A patient with metastatic hemangiopericytoma was studied. Tissue from the original hemangiopericytoma, metastatic tumor, and uninvolved liver was analyzed for IGF-II immunohistochemistry. IGF2, a paternally imprinted gene, shares a control region with maternally imprinted H19, a putative tumor suppressor. IGF-II and H19 mRNA expression was compared in metastatic tumor and uninvolved liver by quantitative RT-PCR. Imprinting of IGF2/H19 genes and IGF2 promoter usage in metastatic tumor was investigated by RT-PCR and sequence analysis, and the methylation pattern in the IGF2/H19 imprinting control region was analyzed.
We performed an in vitro study in an academic research laboratory.
Eleven patients with histologically proven PPNAD were included in the study.
Cultured PPNAD cells were incubated with dexamethasone in the presence of various modulators of the cAMP/PKA pathway and the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU486.
Cortisol and corticosterone were measured by radioimmunological assays in cell culture supernatants.
In 20 children with PWS who underwent a metyrapone test (30 mg/kg at 2330 h), sleep-related breathing was evaluated by polysomnography before the metyrapone test. In addition, we recorded sleep-related breathing in 10 children with PWS during their metyrapone test. CAI was diagnosed when ACTH levels during the metyrapone test were below 33 pmol/liter at 0730 h. All tests were performed during healthy condition.
The study was conducted in a pediatric intensive care unit and specialized sleep center.
The two major sources of data acquisition included PubMed search strategies and personal experience of the author from clinical experience.
We evaluated data from 439 Ca-abs measurements performed using dual-tracer stable isotope techniques conducted at our center over a 15-yr period in 251 healthy children, 4.9-16.7 yr of age.
We performed an observational cohort study.
We used data from the Health, Aging and Body Composition prospective study of white and black, well-functioning men and women ages 70-79 yr.
Participants with (n = 501) and without (n = 427) diabetes were matched on gender, race, and study site.
Urine pentosidine was assayed from frozen stored baseline specimens.
Incident clinical fractures and baseline vertebral fractures were measured.
Functional phenotypes were determined in vitro and molecular phenotypes by hybridization on microarray slides.
Nine patients with FNAH were investigated, six for functional in vitro study of the tissue and five for gene expression.
From the Study of Health in Pomerania, 1326 subjects aged 25 to 85 yr participated in standardized pulmonary function testing. IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels were measured with the Immulite 2500 system. Multivariable linear regression analyses adjusted for age, sex, body mass index, physical activity, and smoking were performed.
We review the development of automated bone age assessment and describe how the conceptual understanding of bone age rating shifted from a rule-based theory to a more intuitive and experience-based approach. The role of the CASAS system from 1992 is described. The BoneXpert system from 2008 employs deformable models of each bone to locate the bones and extracts the component of the bone appearance related to maturity in a holistic, statistical manner. Two clinical studies have been published on its accuracy, defined as the root mean square deviation from manual rating. Other studies addressed the precision of the method, defined as its ability to give the same result on a repeated x-ray, expressed as the sd on a single measurement.
The National Cooperative Growth Study (NCGS), a postmarketing observational study of recombinant human GH (rhGH)-treated children, includes a large cohort of children with NS.
We studied NCGS-enrolled prepubertal and pubertal children with NS.
A case-control study of men with KS (n = 75) compared with age-matched men from the general population (n = 75) was organized, and thyroid function, thyroid volume by ultrasonography, and thyroid antibodies were examined.
This was a planned extension of a randomized controlled trial conducted in a single university hospital.
Subjects previously participated in a 30-month randomized trial comparing the effects of alendronate (group 1), teriparatide (group 2), or both (group 3) on BMD and bone turnover in men and women with low BMD (phase 1). Subjects who completed phase 1 on their assigned therapy entered phase 2 (months 30-42), during which teriparatide was stopped in groups 2 and 3. Teriparatide was administered to all subjects during months 42 to 54 (phase 3).
We compared changes in BMD and markers of bone turnover (serum osteocalcin, N-terminal propeptide of type 1 collagen, and N-telopeptide) between phase 1 and 3 in subjects receiving teriparatide alone.
Between 1984 and 2004, 51 of 684 patients diagnosed with bilateral PA underwent unilateral adrenalectomy. This report is based on the records of the 40 considered suitable for inclusion, who were followed for at least 12 (median, 56.4) months.
Physical examination and blood sampling were performed on 37 PWS males, ages 4 months to 32 yr.
We resequenced the coding region, flanking intronic, and proximal promoter regions of the lamin a/c gene in 43 women with PCOS with evidence of upper-body obesity (waist circumference &gt;88 cm) and identified 56 variants, two of which were nonsynonymous substitutions (lmna11 exon1 E98D; lmna24 exon 7 R455C). We genotyped 53 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (44 identified through resequencing and nine included to maximize informativeness of the entire gene) in 624 index (PCOS) cases and 544 controls of European ancestry. We tested for association between these variants and PCOS. In a subset of individuals, we also tested for association with metabolic syndrome and quantitative traits (body mass index, waist circumference, total testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, fasting glucose and insulin, low-density lipoprotein, and total triglycerides).
Insulin sensitivity (SI) was assessed using the minimal model of glucose kinetics after an oral glucose tolerance test combined with nonlinear mixed-effects modeling. Beta-cell function was measured from the insulinogenic index at 30 min (IGI(30)). Disposition index (DI) was estimated as the product of SI and IGI(30).
The study was conducted at an academic center.
Subjects included 1241 first-degree relatives (aged 2-75 yr).
We used specific gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to analyze serum sex steroids at baseline in older men who participated in the prospective population-based MrOS Sweden cohort (n = 3014; mean age, 75 yr; range, 69-80 yr).
All-cause mortality by serum testosterone and estradiol levels.
This was a cross-sectional, population-based sibling pair study.
A total of 677 men (25-45 yr) were included in this study with 296 independent pairs of brothers.
Areal and volumetric bone parameters were determined using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT). Body composition was determined by DXA. Sex steroids, leptin, and adiponectin were determined by immunoassay.
We conducted a crossover study manipulating meal size and energy availability through exercise energy expenditure and iv nutrient replacement (TPN).
The study was performed at a Clinical Research Center.
Ten healthy postmenopausal women (age, 59.7 +/- 1.5 yr; mean body mass index, 26 kg/m(2)) were studied.
We conducted trials based on different morning meal size (418 vs. 2090 KJ), presence or absence of exercise energy expenditure (2273 to 2361 KJ), energy replacement by TPN (1521 to 1538 KJ), and a midday ad libitum meal.
Changes in hunger, fullness, midday ad libitum food consumption, and concentrations of ghrelin, leptin, insulin, and metabolic fuels were measured. We also performed midday meal tests for the presence of caloric compensation.
We studied eight well-nourished hemodialysis patients in a random crossover design and compared the metabolic effects of a 3-d administration of moderate dose of rhIGF-I (40 microg/kg per 12h) with an association of rhIGF-I + rhGH (50 microg/kg/d). Leucine kinetics, plasma amino acids (AAs), serum insulin, and IGF binding proteins (IGFBP)-1 and -3 were measured.
A case-control study was performed at a referral center.
A total of 150 consecutive patients and 300 healthy women matched for age and menopausal age participated in the study.
We conducted a cross-sectional study at a tertiary care research center.
We studied women with POI (n = 442), concurrent controls (n = 70), and matched controls from NHANES III (n = 353).
We measured bone mineral density (BMD) using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.
In vitro studies were conducted on GL cells from women undergoing in vitro fertilization and GL5 cells, which are derived from GL cells.
GL cells were obtained from women undergoing fertility treatment at a university-based clinic and used for in vitro studies.
PCR, Western blot, and immunocytochemistry were used to detect various progestin binding proteins. (3)H-P4 binding kinetics were assessed on partially purified PGRMC1. Apoptosis was determined after culture by either TUNEL or DAPI staining. P4 was measured by an ELISA assay. PGRMC1 was depleted using small interfering RNA.
A prospective experimental study was conducted at a university-based medical center.
BOLL protein, CDC25A mRNA, and CDC25A protein expressions, as well as spermatocyte numbers in the testes of 32 infertile men were measured. The interaction between BOLL protein and CDC25A mRNA was assessed in in vitro studies.
Protein and RNA expressions, relationships between expression profiles, CDC25A mRNA binding site for BOLL, and the effects of BOLL on CDC25A mRNA stability and translatability were measured.
This was a clinical study of 110 young (aged 22-31 yr) and 86 elderly twins (aged 57-66 yr) and 32 age-matched controls with measures of BW, adult body composition, and insulin sensitivity.
After confirming the expression of M(1)-M(5) receptor mRNA in human hypothalamus, we analyzed the index cases of 39 families with IGHD-IB for mutations in the genes encoding for the five receptors. Coding sequences for each of the five mAchRs were subjected to direct sequencing.
The index case presented at 4 months of age with hypoglycemic seizures. Her HH responded to diazoxide, but she continued to have episodes of hypoglycemia even on diazoxide, especially when consuming high-protein foods.
We enrolled 88 patients, each having at least two TSH measurements above the upper limit of the reference range with normal free thyroid hormones and negative thyroid autoantibodies.
Clinical characteristics included height, weight, family history of thyroid diseases, thyroid volume, and echogenicity at ultrasonography. Biochemical parameters included TSH, free thyroid hormones, thyroid autoantibodies, and adjusted daily urinary iodine excretion (UIE). Genetic variations in the TSH-R gene were assessed.
We conducted a follow-up study of 1066 primarily Caucasian women aged 18-27 yr in the Center for Pregnant Women with Diabetes, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Offspring of women with diet-treated GDM (n = 168) and an unexposed reference group (n = 141) participated, as well as offspring of women with type 1 diabetes (n = 160) and offspring from the background population representing an unexposed reference group (n = 128). The follow-up rate was 56% (597 of 1066).
Women with body mass index of at least 25 kg/m(2) were considered overweight. The metabolic syndrome was determined by the International Diabetes Federation 2006 criteria.
From a cohort of 995 children and adolescents with diabetes, we analyzed the most frequent maturity-onset diabetes of the young genes (GCK, HNF1A, HNF4A) including HNF1B sequencing and deletion analysis by quantitative Multiplex-PCR of Short Fluorescent Fragments (QMPSF) if patients were islet autoantibody-negative and had one parent with diabetes or associated extrapancreatic features or detectable C-peptide outside honeymoon phase. Presence and size of disease-causing chromosomal rearrangements detected by QMPSF were further analyzed by array comparative genomic hybridization.
A grounded theory research design was applied.
Twenty-one Taiwanese sleep disturbed women, aged 46-57 years, participated in in-depth interviews.
Randomised controlled trial.
An efficacy-enhancing educational intervention based on Bandura's self-efficacy theory was evaluated. The eligible Chinese first-time pregnant women were randomly assigned to either an experimental group (n = 60) or a control group (n = 73). The experimental group received two 90-minute sessions of the educational programme in between the 33rd-35th weeks of pregnancy. Follow-up assessments on outcome measures were conducted within 48 hours after delivery. The short form of the Chinese Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory was used to measure maternal self-efficacy prior to labour. Evaluation of pain and anxiety during the three stages of labour and performance of coping behaviour during labour were measured by the Visual Analogue Scale and Childbirth Coping Behaviour Scale respectively.
Randomised clinical trial.
Sample was 56 consecutive stroke patients in K Oriental hospital. Meridian acupressure was applied every day for 10 min per time in the experimental group (28 subjects) for two weeks. Routine care only was applied in the control group (28 subjects). Measures were a hand dynamometer for grip power, a 15-point graphic rating scale for pain, the distance round the index finger for oedema, electrogoniometry for the passive ROM of the upper extremities, the activity of daily living scale for activity of daily living and the six-face rating scale for depression. Data were collected from March 2003-September 2004.
A randomised controlled trial.
Forty patients undergoing open coronary artery bypass grafting and/or aortic valve replacement surgery were randomly allocated to either music listening during bed rest (n = 20) or bed rest only (n = 20). Relaxation was assessed during bed rest the day after surgery by determining the plasma oxytocin, heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure, PaO2 SaO2 and subjective relaxation levels.
The study employed a descriptive, exploratory design using survey methods. Participants were 92 caregivers (parents) whose children were hospitalised for at least three days in a hospital in the middle district of Taiwan.
Quasi-experimental study.
Multiple Sclerosis patients (n = 66) were selected with no probability sampling then assigned to experimental and control groups (33 patients in each group). Means of data collection included: Individual Information Questionnaire, SF-8 Health Survey, Self-reported checklist. PMRT performed for 63 sessions by experimental group during two months but no intervention was done for control group. Statistical analysis was done by SPSS software.
The study was carried out as an intervention-control group design.
Children (n = 206), in whom venipuncture was applied in a laboratory for examination between the dates January-September 2006, were included in the study. The data were obtained by a form determining introductory features of the children and Wong-Baker FACES Pain Rating Scale and Visual Analogue Scale evaluating the pain. Descriptive statistics was used in the assessment of the data and t-test was used in comparisons of dependent-independent groups.
An experimental randomised controlled trial using repeated measures.
The study was designed to examine the effects of progressive muscle relaxation training on patients diagnosed with schizophrenia. Study participants were acute psychiatric inpatients in Taiwan. Eighteen patients were block randomised and then assigned to an experimental or control group. The experimental group received progressive muscle relaxation training and the control group received a placebo intervention. Results from the Beck anxiety inventory were compared between groups as a pretest before intervention, on day 11 of intervention and one week post-test after the intervention was completed. Changes in finger temperature were measured throughout the experiment.
A cross-sectional design was employed for this study.
One hundred and fifty-one older persons diagnosed with either rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis were interviewed in the rheumatology clinics located in two medical centres in northern Taiwan. Six questionnaires were administered: Barthel Index, Instrumental Activity of Daily Living, Rapid Assessment of Disease Activity in Rheumatology, the Chinese version of Pain Management Inventory, Geriatric Depression Scale and Life Satisfaction Index.
Descriptive quantitative study.
Data were collected by questionnaires from patients (n = 107) visiting a hospital emergency department. The data were subjected to statistical analysis.
Qualitative design
Nineteen relatives received soft tissue massage (hand or foot) nine times (25 minutes) in their homes. Open-ended semi-structured tape-recorded interviews were conducted once per relative after the nine times of massage, using qualitative content analysis.
A cross-sectional survey.
Purposive sampling was conducted at the cardiovascular clinics of two teaching hospitals in central Taiwan. A sample of 277 patients was included in this study. Guided by the Self Regulation Model, a series of variables including socio-demographic variables, clinical variables, illness representations, identity and causes were evaluated for their relationships with adherence to the antihypertensive regimen and recommendations of self-management.
Survey.
Parents of 100 paediatric patients (who were diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at least 6 months prior to the study) who visited the participating paediatric endocrinology multidisciplinary centres and clinics for diabetes management were included in the study. Data were collected by using a semi-structured questionnaire. Results. Fifty-two per cent of the parents reported the use of one or more complementary alternative medicine therapies. Most such users (59.6%) were using oral herbal preparations; including morus alba (leaves) aloe vera and stinging nettle.
The study was designed as a cross-sectional survey. The data were obtained from 114 end-stage renal disease patients in two haemodialysis centres in Ankara, Turkey between June-August 2007.
Data were collected through face-to-face structured interviews. Descriptive statistics and the chi-square test were conducted.
An exploratory, qualitative design involving two time points.
A convenience sample of 27 older people from two primary care trusts who had a recent fall. Taped semi structured qualitative interviews were conducted and repeated at follow up to detect change over time and repeat falls. Data were collected on their experience of falls, health, activities of living, lifestyle, quality of life, use of services, prevention of falls, informal care and social networks. Content analysis of transcribed interviews identified key themes.
This study used a qualitative research approach, as the aim was to elucidate meaning.
Data were collected through qualitative research interviews with two women and six men with moderate or severe traumatic brain injury who had lived with the injury for between 7-15 years. A phenomenological hermeneutic method was used to interpret the data.
The study was informed by Heideggerian phenomenology.
Purposive sampling and semi-structured interviews of five patients and their partners were conducted between 2004-2006 in Sydney Australia, to obtain a rich description of their experiences.
Qualitative, longitudinal study.
Semi structured interviews were conducted with 11 patients before and after six months of chemotherapy treatment for colorectal cancer in a Scottish cancer centre between March 2005-June 2006. The interviews, conducted as part of a larger study, explored patients' understandings of their perceived control over managing treatment-related side effects and how this influenced their attitudes toward, and role preferences in, self care.
The study used a survey design including questionnaires.
Clinical variables were noted from the anaesthesia medical records. The sample (n = 119) comprised patients undergoing elective surgery and emergency operations within 24 hours of admission. Anxiety was assessed by the Jakobsen's questionnaire and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale.
A cross-sectional survey.
A cross-sectional survey of 103 community-dwelling Korean older adults was conducted from June 2007-September 2007. Health literacy was measured using the Korean Functional Health Literacy test and functional health status was measured using the subscales of the Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short-Form Health Survey.
Survey.
Data were collected through a structured questionnaire; 657 nurses were recruited from Obstetrics and Gynaecology units in Hong Kong and Shandong during 2006. Outcome measures included attitudes towards perinatal bereavement care, importance of hospital policy and training support for bereavement care.
Survey.
A system was implemented in a six-room surgical suite to display OR monitoring video at an access restricted control desk area. Image quality was manipulated to improve staff acceptance. Two months after installation, interviews and a survey were conducted on staff acceptance of video monitoring.
A cross-sectional survey.
Nursing students (n = 377) studying in pre- and post-registration programmes were surveyed at a university in Hong Kong using a questionnaire with open- and closed-ended questions about their knowledge, attitude and self-perception on readiness to work for clients with sexual health concerns.
Fourteen nursing homes and one hospital-based geriatric ward in Bergen, Norway were surveyed, using the translation of an Approach to Dementia Questionnaire. The study population (n = 291) was a mixture of registered nurses, auxiliary nurses, nursing assistants and non-trained aides.
Survey.
A descriptive, prospective and correlational design was used.
Older stroke survivors (n = 98) were assessed at the end of one, three, six and 12 months after hospital discharge for health-related quality of life (measured by the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36) and physical functioning (measured by the Chinese Barthel Index and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Scale).
A grounded theory approach was used to explore nurses' interaction with dying patients and their families and examine how nurses deal with situations in which the patient's death is inevitable.
Eighteen nurses were interviewed up to three times each at three teaching hospitals in Isfahan, Iran, during autumn 2006. A shortlist of possible participants was obtained by means of theoretical sampling and those who had experienced the death of patients and were able to express their feelings verbally were selected.
The study used a pre-/postdescriptive design.
Purposive sampling was used to recruit 43 patients aged 65-84 from six surgery wards in a medical centre in northern Taiwan from January 2005-May 2005. Participants were interviewed one to two days prior to surgery and interviewed again one to two days before hospital discharge. Demographic data, Mishel's Uncertainty Illness Scale, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the Interpersonal Support Evaluation List were used to collect data.
Cross-sectional study.
A self-administered questionnaire was completed by 352 undergraduate student nurses and 198 registered nurses. The questionnaire consisted of the Fat Phobia Scale, the Attitudes Toward Obese Adult Patients Scale and a demographic profile. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics and student's t-tests.
Grounded theory related literature review was conducted.
This is a methodological review paper.
A consecutive cohort of 500 patients 65 years of age and over were recruited prospectively from primary care over a 6 month period in a provincial town in Ireland. Patients' medical records (electronic and paper) were screened and all relevant information concerning current illnesses and medications was recorded on a standardized data collection form to which Beers' criteria [considering diagnosis (CD) and independent of diagnosis (ID)] and IPET tools were applied. The NIC was calculated from an edition of the Irish monthly index of medical specialities published concurrently with the data collection.
We analysed all prescriptions dispensed from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 to individuals aged 65 or more registered under the Local Health Authority of Lecco, a northern Italian province with a population of almost 330 000 persons. Elderly who received at least two co-administered prescriptions were selected to assess the presence of DDIs.
Medical records of 695 patients participating in a clinical trial which was designed to reduce use of antibiotics for ARTI in primary care, were linked to their prescriptions. Matching of prescribed and dispensed medications enabled the assessment of interventions by community pharmacists.
A questionnaire was developed around those used in UK and Australasian studies of general practitioners' attitudes towards research. Questions assessed attitudes to research, involvement in research, barriers and facilitators to involvement, self-assessed understanding of research terminology, and access to and use of electronic bibliographic databases. One thousand pharmacists were randomly and proportionately selected from the State and Territory Pharmacy Board registers to receive the anonymous questionnaire by mail. Non-respondents were sent a follow-up reminder and second copy of the questionnaire after 3 weeks.
The study was a prospective randomized controlled trial. Adult patients were selected if: (i) they were taking one or more lipid-lowering agents with a valid lipid panel before their next follow up; (ii) had a baseline lipid profile within the previous 6 months; (iii) their lipid panel did not reach the targeted low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) goal based on the National Cholesterol Education Programme Adult Treatment Panel III. Pharmacists interviewed patients in the intervention group for 15-30 min to provide consultation on the drug regimen and lifestyle modifications. A telephone follow-up every 4 weeks and a follow-up interview on the date of the physician visit were scheduled. Patients in the control group received routine conventional care. The primary outcome measurement was the change in lipid panel between baseline and at the end of study.
The screening encompassed 249 records of 114 epileptic patients aged 0-19 years old, who were treated with VPA monotherapy and whose total and unbound VPA concentrations were determined. These data were divided into groups according to the patients' age. In each group, the relationship between total and unbound VPA concentrations was compared to a reference profile, and the deviation from the reference was evaluated. The reference profile was calculated using the Langmuir equation, in which two parameters Kd and Bm were set to 7.8 and 130 microg/mL, respectively, according to our previous findings.
Solutions of 250 mL of 5% dextrose in polyolefin bags (n = 5) containing approximately 400 mg of calcium levofolinate were prepared under aseptic conditions and frozen for 95 days at -20 degrees C. The solutions were then thawed using microwaves and stored at 5 +/- 3 degrees C for 1 month. The calcium levofolinate concentrations were measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Visual inspection was performed and pH was measured periodically during the storage at 5 +/- 3 degrees C. Stability of the solution was defined as a concentration remaining superior to 90% of the initial concentration by regression analysis as recommended by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
We searched across diverse studies conducted in Korea and the Knowledge Base for Korean Pharmacogenomics Research Network operated by Seoul National University to determine the frequency of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the CYP1A2 gene and to choose frequently occurring SNPs in a Korean population. We analyzed and confirmed the frequencies of CYP1A2 SNPs that are inferred as MAF &gt;0.05 in 400 healthy Korean subjects, using direct sequencing and a TaqMan assay. The LD block and haplotypes were constructed from the SNP databases in the other races registered in the International HapMap (Europeans, Chinese, Japanese and Africans) and the haplotype frequencies in each race were compared with those in the Korean population.
We analysed the single nucleotide polymorphisms and haplotypes of the CYP2C19 gene in 150 healthy Koreans and found three major (frequency &gt; 0.1) haplotypes (H1, H2 and H3). One oral dose of 40 mg omeprazole (Losec) was administered to 30 subjects grouped as H1/H1, H2/H2, H1/H2, H1/H3 and H2/H3. The pharmacokinetics of omeprazole and its metabolites, 5-hydroxyomeprazole and omeprazole sulphone, in those groups was analysed.
This study assessed the relationship between genetic polymorphisms in the NK2R gene and chronic cough in 91 patients taking ACE inhibitors. Patients included in the study did not have chest abnormalities, postnasal drip, gastroesophageal reflux or a recent history of upper respiratory infection.
Two-compartment model-based Japanese population parameters for VCM were used, and the mean prediction error (ME) and root mean squared error (RMSE) were calculated as indices of bias and accuracy, respectively, for predictions by the PM and Bayesian methods.
A two-compartment open model was adopted as a pharmacokinetic model. The nonlinear mixed-effects model was used to analyze the population pharmacokinetic models.
There were 135 patients eligible for assessment of the status of urinary continence after surgery. The patients were divided into two groups according to the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF)-5 score: Group 1, &gt;or=14 (56 patients); group 2, &lt;14 (79 patients). The correlation between urinary continence and patient age at surgery, body mass index, preoperative prostate-specific antigen level, preoperative IIEF-5 score, and an attempted nerve-sparing procedure was investigated.
A total of 20 domestic swine were randomized into four equal groups. Each subject underwent laparoscopic radical nephrectomy to create the condition of a solitary kidney. On the contralateral side, a laparoscopic lower pole partial nephrectomy was performed, employing either selective or nonselective vascular clamping for either 60 or 90 minutes. Postoperatively, clinical status and serial serum studies were closely monitored for 1 week.
Between December 2006 and July 2007, 21 intraoperative pre- and postcryoablation (18-gauge core) biopsies of renal masses were obtained. Evaluation of the biopsies by the institutional uropathologist was followed by a blind assessment by two other uropathologists. Tumor subtype and Fuhrman grade were determined by the three pathologists, while biopsy timing (before or after cryoablation) was only assessed by the two blinded pathologists. The diagnostic yield of the pre- and postcryoablation biopsies and interobserver agreement were calculated.
Eighty-nine urologists and residents in urology performed a urethrocystoscopy task (bladder inspection, biopsy, and coagulation) or a ureterorenoscopy task (manipulation of a distal ureter stone) using the URO Mentor. They completed an evaluation questionnaire about these tasks. Questionnaire bias related to task performance on URO Mentor was analyzed as well (Hawthorne effect).
Thirty-four patients with bladder tumor were submitted to TURB in our academic institution in April 2006, and were prospectively studied. Procedures were all done by senior residents under an attending direct supervision. All patients had a cystograms performed after the procedure by the injection of 400 mL of saline-diluted contrast solution with low-pressure infusion through the Foley catheter. The cystograms were evaluated blindly by a single radiologist. All patients were examined by cystoscopy and/or CT every 3 months for the first 2 years postoperatively.
Between 1995 and 2006, 49 patients under dialysis or after kidney transplantation underwent simultaneous bilateral nephroureterectomy for clinically presumed localized UUT-UC at our institute. Of those, 33 underwent HALBNU and 16 received conventional open surgery. Perioperative and pathological data and oncological outcomes were collected by chart review. Bladder recurrence, metastasis, and cancer-specific and overall survival were analyzed and compared between both groups.
Between January 2006 and October 2007, 1000 consecutive transurethral resection (TUR), 376 transurethral resection of prostate, 480 transurethral resection of bladder neoplasm, and 144 transurethral incision of prostate were performed. All procedures were carried out with a bipolar device in physiologic saline (TURis). The resectoscope used was an Olympus 26F in continuous flow-type Iglesias with continuous aspiration. The loops were all disposable/single use. The incidence of unwanted stimulation of the obturator reflex, TUR syndrome, thermal skin lesion, blood transfusion, urethral strictures, and bladder neck contractures were recorded.
After approval of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, 10 female pigs underwent bilateral transperitoneal laparoscopic lower pole heminephrectomy. Closure of the collecting system and approximation of the renal parenchyma was performed in two layers using continuous knotless barbed suture for one kidney (Quill SRS) and polyglactin (Vicryl) with absorbable polydioxanone clips (LapraTy; Ethicon) on the contralateral kidney. For both techniques, the collecting system was closed with 2-0 suture and renal parenchyma with #1 suture. Warm ischemia and suturing time were recorded, and resected tissue was weighed. All animals were sacrificed 1 week after surgery. Serum hemoglobin and visual inspection at necropsy were used to assess for bleeding; visual inspection of the peritoneum and bilateral retrograde pyelography were used to assess for urinary fistula.
Six animals were included in each of the following five groups: group 1, sham operation but no treatment; group 2, unilateral ureteral ligation but no treatment; group 3, sham operation + MLT; group 4, unilateral ureteral ligation + MLT; group 5, unilateral ureteral ligation +5% ethanol (the vehicle of MLT). The injected dose of MLT was 1 mg/kg/day (intraperitoneal). MLT and vehicle were injected daily, beginning 5 days before the unilateral ureteral ligation or sham operation and until 10 days after it. At 10 days after UUO, all rats were sacrificed with high-dose ketamine. Malondialdehyde, glutathione, nitric oxide (NO), and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine levels and inducible NO synthase (iNOS), p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38-MAPK), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB) expression were studied. Histopathological examination of the obstructed kidney was also performed.
Forty-three male patients with bladder stones were randomized into two groups, to perform nephroscopic (group 1, n = 22) and cystoscopic (group 2, n = 21) stone fragmentation procedures transurethrally. Combined pneumatic/ultrasonic lithotripsy device was used in both groups to fragment the bladder stones.
Twenty-five rabbits were divided into two groups with 11 rabbits in each group. Both kidneys of the remaining three rabbits served as a sham group. All animals underwent right ureteral ligation using surgical clips. In group 1 (n = 6), 1500 SWs were applied to the obstructed kidney after 3 days of ligation, and the kidneys were removed on day 4. Group 1 control (n = 5) animals also underwent nephrectomy on day 4 without receiving SWs. Group 2 (n = 6) animals received the same dose of SWs after 6 days of ureteral ligation and were nephrectomized on day 7. Group 2 control (n = 5) animals did not receive SWs and were nephrectomized on day 7. Immunohistochemical staining was performed for HSP70 expression, and staining intensity was graded semiquantatively.
From October 2005 to October 2007, 104 patients underwent PCNL in our hospital. We compared the patients who undergone previous open surgery on the same kidney (group 1; n = 36) with those who had undergone no previous surgery (group 2; n = 68). We extracted requested information such as age, sex, stone number, stone burden, intraoperative and postoperative complications, hospital stay, access time, operative time, and success rate. The results of the study were analyzed using SPSS 10 software.
Prospectively maintained Institutional Regulatory Board-approved databases were searched to identify patients treated with percutaneous RFA using contrast-enhanced CT under GA. A total of 163 masses in 151 patients were treated. Enhancement on imaging or a positive biopsy at 4 to 6 weeks was considered incomplete ablation. Positive findings beyond this interval were defined as local recurrence.
Patients with CRI undergoing LRC for small enhancing renal masses were retrospectively evaluated for renal function changes after surgery. From February 2001 to July 2007, 123 patients underwent LRC; 77 of these had preoperative and postoperative creatinine levels (Cr) for evaluation, and 14 of these had renal insufficiency. Renal insufficiency was defined as a Cr level &gt;1.3 mg/dL. Creatinine clearance (CrCl) was calculated by the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation. Complications were reviewed.
Ten ureteroenteric strictures in patients with ileal conduits that were managed with metallic ureteral stenting were retrospectively identified. Charts were examined for patient age, anastomosis type, stricture cause, stricture laterality, complications, and follow-up.
Nineteen human stones were measured using manual calipers. A 10-MHz, 1/8'' (10F) ultrasound transducer probe pinged each stone on a kidney tissue phantom submerged in water using two methods. In Method 1, the instrument was aligned such that the ultrasound pulse traveled through the stone. In Method 2, the instrument was aligned partially over the stone such that the ultrasound pulse traveled through water.
Eight patients with long-term stents were enrolled prospectively. All received a control stent for 3 months along with preoperative and postoperative antibiotics. After 3 months, the control stent was removed, and a triclosan-eluting stent was placed for 3 months with no antibiotics administered. For both indwelling periods, urine cultures were obtained weekly and biweekly for the first and last 6 weeks, respectively, and antibiotics were prescribed when patients had both a positive urine culture and symptoms of urinary tract infection. On removal, stents were assessed for microorganisms and encrustation.
We reviewed all patients undergoing open stone surgery for upper urinary tract stones from 1997 until 2007 at the Department of Urology, University Hospital Mannheim. A retrospective chart analysis was performed on these patients to identify factors and indications for open stone surgery. Indications for stone surgery, type of surgery performed, stone complexity, anatomical abnormities present, and the residual stone burden were reviewed.
This retrospective study included 25 women who underwent laparoscopic surgery for vesicovaginal fistula from June 2003 to November 2008. All patients were underwent laparoscopic surgery by the transabdominal transvesical route. Patients were investigated by intravenous urography, micturating cystography, cystoscopy, and retrograde pyelography.
A preliminary learning set and a classification tree of spectra derived from 24 patients with NPC and a group of 24 noncancer controls were used to develop a proteomic model that discriminated cancer from noncancer effectively. Then, the validity of the classification tree was challenged with a blind test set, which included another 20 patients with NPC and 12 noncancer controls.
Literatures searched on PubMed and Embase databases were enrolled in the Meta-analysis. The Meta-analysis of all eligible studies was applied with Stata 10.0 software, and the pooled odds ratio(OR) and weighted mean difference (WMD) value were obtained. The Q test, Egger's test and Begg's funnel plot were used to evaluate the heterogeneity and publication bias between the studies.
Generation 5 (G5) through generation 8 (G8) polyamidoamine dendrimers were labeled with gadolinium (Gd)-diethyltriaminepentaacetic acid, an anionic MRI contrast agent. The respective Gd-dendrimer generations were visualized in vitro by scanning transmission electron microscopy. Following intravenous infusion of the respective Gd-dendrimer generations (Gd-G5, N = 6; Gd-G6, N = 6; Gd-G7, N = 5; Gd-G8, N = 5) the blood and tumor tissue pharmacokinetics of the Gd-dendrimer generations were visualized in vivo over 600 to 700 minutes by dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI. One additional animal was imaged in each Gd-dendrimer generation group for 175 minutes under continuous anesthesia for the creation of voxel-by-voxel Gd concentration maps.
Ninety subjects were enrolled and divided into three groups based on the BMD values of the lumbar spine and/or the femoral neck by DXA. Groups 1 and 2 consisted of postmenopausal women with BMD changes &lt;-2SD, with and without radiographically confirmed vertebral fracture (n=11 and 33, respectively). Group 3 comprised normal controls with BMD changes &gt; or =-1SD (n=46). Post-MSCT (GE, LightSpeed16) scan reconstructed images of the abdominal-pelvic region, 1.25 mm thick per slice, were processed by OsteoCAD software to calculate the following parameters: volumetric BMD values of trabecular bone (TRAB), cortical bone (CORT), and integral bone (INTGL) of the left femoral neck, femoral neck axis length (NAL), and minimum cross-section area (mCSA). DXA BMD measurements of the lumbar spine (AP-SPINE) and the left femoral neck (NECK) also were performed for each subject.
Artificial cerebrospinal fluid with carnosine was directly administrated over the exposed rat hippocampus. The changes of neuron activity in the CA1 region of hippocampus were evaluated by orthodromically- and antidromically-evoked potentials, as well as paired-pulse stimulation paradigm.
22-month-old Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were used as spontaneously occurring intervertebral disc degeneration models and 6-month-old rats as young controls. Expression of collagen types II and X was measured by immunohistochemistry. Degenerations of intervertebral discs were scored according to Miyamoto's method. Numbers and areas of afferent vascular buds were measured. The thicknesses of non-calcified and calcified layers were measured and statistically analyzed.
Rat aortic VSMCs were isolated and cultured in vitro, and treated with different concentrations of parthenolide (10, 20 and 30 mumol/L). [(3)H]thymidine incorporation was used as an index of cell proliferation. Cell cycle progression and distribution were determined by flow cytometric analysis. Furthermore, the expression of several regulatory proteins relevant to VSMC proliferation including IkappaBalpha, cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2), p21, and p27 was examined to investigate the potential molecular mechanism.
Participants saw a series of pictures with either blue or red background, and were then given a pretest for item and source memories. Then males and females respectively were randomly assigned either to a wake or a sleep condition. In the wake condition, participants remained awake until the posttest; in the sleep condition, participants slept for 1 h until awakened and asked to remain awake until the posttest.
Herein we share our experiences in the treatment of 12 patients with hepatic hydrothorax by video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). Repair of the diaphragmatic defects, or pleurodesis by focal pleurectomy, talc spray, mechanical abrasion, electro-cauterization or injection was administered intraoperatively, and tetracycline intrapleural injection was used postoperatively for patients with prolonged (&gt;7 d) high-output (&gt;300 ml/d) pleural effusion.
We reported the clinical findings of a male patient with IgE myeloma and elevated level of serum CA125 and reviewed the literature.
The Sciatica Micro-Endoscopic Diskectomy randomized controlled trial was conducted among 328 patients aged 18 to 70 years who had persistent leg pain (&gt;8 weeks) due to lumbar disk herniations at 7 general hospitals in The Netherlands from January 2005 to October 2006. Patients and observers were blinded during the follow-up, which ended 1 year after final enrollment.
Tubular diskectomy (n = 167) vs conventional microdiskectomy (n = 161).
The primary outcome was functional assessment on the Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire (RDQ) for sciatica (score range: 0-23, with higher scores indicating worse functional status) at 8 weeks and 1 year after randomization. Secondary outcomes were scores on the visual analog scale for leg pain and back pain (score range: 0-100 mm) and patient's self-report of recovery (measured on a Likert 7-point scale).
A randomized controlled trial of nasopharyngeal carriage of Streptococcus pneumoniae enrolling 1003 healthy newborns and 1 of their parents in a general community in The Netherlands, with follow-up to age 24 months and conducted between July 7, 2005, and February 14, 2008.
Infants were randomly assigned to receive 2 doses of PCV-7 at 2 and 4 months; 2 + 1 doses of PCV-7 at 2, 4, and 11 months; or no dosage (control group).
Vaccine serotype pneumococcal carriage rates in infants in the second year of life.
Within each of 5 community-based cohorts comprising the EchoGen consortium (stage 1; n = 12 612 individuals of European ancestry; 55% women, aged 26-95 years; examinations between 1978-2008), we estimated the association between approximately 2.5 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; imputed to the HapMap CEU panel) and echocardiographic traits. In stage 2, SNPs significantly associated with traits in stage 1 were tested for association in 2 other cohorts (n = 4094 people of European ancestry). Using a prespecified P value threshold of 5 x 10(-7) to indicate genome-wide significance, we performed an inverse variance-weighted fixed-effects meta-analysis of genome-wide association data from each cohort.
Echocardiographic traits: LV mass, internal dimensions, wall thickness, systolic dysfunction, aortic root, and left atrial size.
A systematic search of the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Science Citation Index Expanded databases using adiponectin and diabetes and various synonyms and reference lists of retrieved articles up to April 10, 2009.
We included prospective studies with plasma adiponectin levels as the exposure and incidence of type 2 diabetes as the outcome variable.
Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed study quality. Generalized least-squares trend estimation was used to assess dose-response relationships. Pooled relative risks and 95% confidence intervals were calculated using random-effects models to incorporate between-study variation.
The rat pancreatic beta cell line INS-1 was used as a cell biological model since it exhibits glucose dependent insulin secretion. Insulin production assessment was carried out using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and cAMP quantification with competitive ELISA. Viability of TNF-alpha and oleic acid treated cells was evaluated using flow cytometry. PPAR-gamma translocation was assessed using a PPRE based ELISA system. In vivo studies were carried out on adult male KKAy mice and glucose levels were measured with a glucometer.
Malaria death was defined as a death from fever with microscopically confirmed Plasmodium falciparum among residents of Jalpaiguri during 2007-2008. For each case, three age-, sex- and locality-matched controls were recruited among microscopically confirmed falciparum malaria patients cured during the same period. Clinical and treatment information was abstracted from records. Information about knowledge about malaria, presence of bed nets and DDT spraying was collected through interviews of the close relatives of study subjects. Odds ratio (OR) were calculated using multivariate methods.
DNA and RNA sequences analysis as well as phylogenetic approaches were used to analyse the stevor sequence repertoire and diversity in laboratory lines and Kilifi (Kenya) fresh isolates.
Our study was conducted on 63 rats at Experimental Research Center of Celal Bayar University. Six-month-old rats were divided into seven groups. There were five drug administered ovariectomized groups, one ovariectomized control group without drug administration and one non-ovariectomized control group without drug administration. Eight weeks postovariectomy, rats were treated with the bisphosphonate risedronate sodium, the statin atorvastatin, the estrogen 17beta-estradiol and the selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) raloxifene hydrochloride and clomiphene citrate by gavage daily for 8 weeks. At the end of the study, rats were killed under anesthesia. For densitometric evaluation, left femurs and tibiae were removed. Left femurs were also used to measure bone volume. Right femurs were used for three-point bending test.
Within the NOWAC cohort we conducted a cross-sectional comparison of questionnaire data among women aged 48-62 years in 1996 (N=8822), 2002 (N=6262) and 2005 (N=4830). Response rates for first time respondents: 58% in 1996 and 66% in 2005. The 2002 participants were second time respondents including 4814 of the 1996 participants. The partial dependence was managed statistically using generalized estimating equations (GEE) and linear mixed models.
93 postmenopausal women were enrolled in a 52-week randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial and received either DHEA 50mg or placebo (PL) daily. The effects of DHEA versus placebo on lipid profile, insulin-glucose homeostasis and the endomentrium were assessed over 52 weeks.
Between 2002 and 2004, the study recruited 518 postmenopausal women aged 50-64 years. They were examined by B-mode ultrasound to measure the IMT and the prevalence of plaque at the near and far walls of common carotid (CCA), bifurcation (bulb), and internal carotid (ICA) of both the left and right carotid arteries. Blood pressures, obesity indices, lipids and glucose levels, sociodemographic, medical and lifestyle factors were also obtained.
The survey involved representative samples of women 45-60 years from five Italian regions. Twenty trained interviewers distributed the questionnaires reaching participants at their homes. A total of 969 women were selected from electoral rolls. 720 of them completed the interview (74.3% response rate).
Breast cancer tissue and fasting serum were collected from 26 female patients. After microdissection of frozen samples, RNA was isolated and expression of insulin receptor, IGFR1, IGFR2, AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 was measured on mRNA level by means of real time RT-PCR. Fasting insulin, glucose and c-peptide serum levels were analysed by ELISA. Insulin resistance was calculated using the HOMA model.
In total, 605 consecutive community-dwelling elderly individuals who were 65 years and older were evaluated. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry was used to determine the lowest T-score in the lumbar spine+unilateral hip, the bilateral hips, and the lumbar spine+bilateral hips. Risk factors associated with the lowest T-score in these three conditions were applied to indicate treatment in accordance with NOF criteria. McNemar's test was used to assess the difference of adding bilateral hip BMD measurements.
Metabolic profile and inflammatory parameters were determined in dyslipidemic patients with (+CAD, n = 33) and without (-CAD, n = 69) symptomatic CAD. Endothelial function was evaluated by flow mediated dilatation (FMD) and plasma concentration of nitrites and nitrates. Carotid IMT was measured by ultrasound.
cIAP-1, cIAP-2 and XIAP where knocked down either individually or in combination using siRNA in androgen independent prostate cancer PC-3 cells as confirmed by real-time PCR and western blotting. Cells were then treated with TRAIL, Etoposide, or Tunicamycin, and apoptosis assessed by PI DNA staining. Apoptosis was confirmed with Annexin V labelling and measurement of PARP cleavage, and was inhibited using the pan-caspase inhibitor, zVAD.fmk. Clonogenic assays and assessment of ID-1 expression by western blotting were used to measure recovery and proliferation.
We measured clearance rates of 99mTc-tetrofosmin in four healthy smokers and four healthy nonsmokers and of 99mTc-sestamibi in six otherwise healthy patients with psoriasis before and after 2 weeks of therapy with cyclosporine A (2.5-5 mg/kg/day) and two healthy women taking the oral contraceptive pill, as both cyclosporine and steroids are known to be P-gp modulators.
Thirty-four patients with prior myocardial infarction underwent DE-MRI and 99mTc-sestamibi/18F-FDG SPECT. The area of delayed enhancement by DE-MRI was defined as scar tissue. The region with concordantly reduced perfusion and glucose metabolism was defined as nonviable myocardium. In a 17-segment model, the segmental extent of hyperenhancement was compared with segmental 99mTc-sestamibi and 18F-FDG uptake defect. All segments were divided into five different severities by segmental extent of hyperenhancement in DE-MRI and were classified into different viability situations by segmental 99mTc-sestamibi and 18F-FDG uptake in SPECT.
A total of 25 studies (comprising 789 patients) that were published from January 1990 to September 2008 were reviewed. These studies evaluated the role of FDG-PET and FDG-PET/CT in the detection of recurrent or metastatic DTC that radioiodine WBS failed to detect. Systematic methods were used to identify, select, and evaluate the methodological quality of the studies and to summarize the overall findings of sensitivity and specificity.
Dynamic fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG)-PET scans obtained in 20 patients with high-grade glioma (World Health Organization grade III, five lesions; grade IV, 15 lesions) and in 12 patients with CNS lymphoma (16 lesions) were retrospectively reviewed. Applying a three-compartment model, parametric images of K1, k2, k3, and k4 and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMR(Glc)) were obtained.
The volunteer was seated and positioned relative to the scintillation camera field of view by means of a fixation frame. After nasal administration, a dynamic series of images was acquired for 32 min with a lateral direction of view. The images were corrected for photon attenuation by the use of a lateral transmission image acquired before the delivery of aerosols or powders. Marker images, obtained with a line source fixed to a balloon and kept for a short while against the palate as well as with a point source held on anatomical landmarks, were used to co-register the scintigraphic images to sagital sections through a three-dimensional magnetic resonance (MR)-image series. The MR set was used to define the inner nose contour and the nasal regions used for quantification.
Data for 38 patients were analyzed retrospectively (27 males) with a mean age of 51+/-10 years. All patients underwent gated myocardial perfusion gated SPECT and two-dimensional echocardiography. EF estimated by the four methods and echocardiography were recorded and analyzed with paired t-test, Pearson's correlation coefficient, analysis of variance, and Bland-Altman plot.
All 31 lymphoma patients in whom the histologic diagnosis was made and who had also undergone a prechemotherapy PET scan at our institution between June 2001 and December 2005 were included in this retrospective study. The percentage of tumor cells in the various lymphoma subtypes was estimated by comparison of hematoxylin and eosin stain with a lineage-associated immunohistochemical stain on the same block of tissue. Tissue specimens were stained with Glut1 and Glut3 antibodies. The percentages of Glut1+ and Glut3+ cells in the entire cell population (lymphoma cells and nonlymphomatous cells) and among the lymphoma cells were estimated. FDG PET images were reviewed and the tumor intensity was assessed by calculating the maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax). Correlation coefficients between SUVmax and the percentage of Glut1+ and Glut3+ cells in the entire cell population were calculated.
Eleven men, categorized as either having a lower (LOW-FIT; n = 5) or higher (FIT; n = 6) aerobic fitness level, completed a 4-d baseline period (BL) of an energy balance diet while maintaining usual physical activity level, followed by a 7-d intervention consisting of 1,000 kcal·d⁻¹ increased energy expenditure via exercise (50-65% VO₂peak). All volunteers consumed 0.9 g protein.kg⁻¹·d⁻¹ and total energy intake was adjusted to maintain energy balance throughout the 11-d study. Mean nitrogen balance (NBAL) was determined for BL, days 5-8 (EX1), and days 9-11 (EX2). Whole-body protein turnover was derived from phenylalanine and tyrosine kinetics assessed while fasting at rest on days 4, 7, and 12 using a priming dose of L-[ring-¹⁵N]tyrosine and a 4-h primed, continuous infusion of L-[¹⁵N]phenylalanine and L-[ring-²H₄]tyrosine.
The IL-10 and IL-6 levels and IgH gene rearrangements were analyzed in vitreous samples from 8 cases of IOL and in 14 uveitis patients.
Records of 25 patients (29 eyes), diagnosed with EFE and treated at Shanghai Eye, Ear, Nose &amp; Throat Hospital from January 2002 to December 2006, were retrospectively reviewed. Four patients had bilateral disease. Final visual acuity and recurrence of EFE were evaluated.
Data were collected for treatments, antibiotic sensitivity patterns, and final visual outcomes.
Concensus workshop of an international committee on nomenclature.
An international group of uveitis specialists from Asia, Africa, Europe, and America met in a concensus conference in Shinagawa, Tokyo on October 28-29, 2006. Based on questionnaires that had been sent out prior to the conference, the participants discussed potential intraocular clinical signs eligible for a diagnosis of ocular sarcoidosis. A refined definition of clinical signs, which received two-thirds majority of votes, was included in the list of signs consistent with ocular sarcoidosis. Laboratory investigations were similarly discussed and those tests reaching a two-thirds majority were retained for the diagnosis of ocular sarcoidosis. Finally diagnostic criteria were proposed based on ocular signs, laboratory investigations, and biopsy results.
Retrospective, case history study. We reviewed the medical records of 46 patients who attended the sarcoidosis clinics at the Royal Brompton and Moorfields Eye Hospital over a 4-year period with a diagnosis of definite and probable neurosarcoidosis supported by laboratory investigations and exclusion of other causes for the neurological symptoms.
Retrospective review of 19 (18)F-FDG PET scans. All patients had normal chest CT. In the final analysis, the authors used criteria similar to the criteria of Abad et al. (Abad S, Meyssonier V, Allali J, et al. Association of peripheral multifocal choroiditis with sarcoidosis: a study of thirty-seven patients. Arthritis Rheum. 2004;51:974-982) for the diagnosis of sarcoidosis-associated uveitis.
Retrospective case series. All patients with a diagnosis of sarcoidosis-associated uveitis that were treated with MMF between 2005 and 2007 were identified. The dose and duration of MMF therapy and side effects were recorded.
Case report.
Laser photocoagulation used to rupture Bruch's membrane; animals then assigned to groups based on varying frequency of intravitreal anakinra injections. At day 30, digital angiography was used to measure the CNV area.
The study group consisted of 45 consecutive patients of Eales disease [inflammatory stage (n = 15) and proliferative stage (n = 30)] and 28 healthy controls. Immunoassays for the quantification of the levels of four cytokines including IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-alpha in the serum samples were performed using ELISA kits.
Review of clinical records.
Two case reports.
A homosexual, diabetic male with macular edema treated with bilateral IVTA and a male with bilateral panuveitis and macular edema who underwent vitrectomy and IVTA. Both developed occlusive retinal vasculitis and panuveitis postinjection. Syphilis serology was positive although both denied previous symptoms.
TA (40 mg/l ml) was administered at varying intervals prior to vitrectomy. Vitreous samples from 18 patients were obtained. TA concentrations were quantified using HPLC-MS.
Case report.
Interventional case report.
Using self-report data from two sources collected from troops deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan and the surrounding region, we analyzed incidence and risk factors for ARI. Military personnel on mid-deployment Rest &amp; Recuperation (R&amp;R) or during redeployment were eligible to participate in the voluntary self-report survey.
The projectile was lodged between the apex of the heart and the diaphragm. The patient was treated non-operatively and was discharged home only to return to the emergency department with chest pain and subsequent identification of the projectile in the left inferior pulmonary vein. Operative management consisted of a median sternotomy, cardiopulmonary bypass, and a pulmonary venectomy.
Prospective, observational study.
Urban, tertiary care children's hospital.
Cardiac arrest survivors, n = 35.
Serial blood sampling, pediatric cerebral performance category, and standardized neurologic examination.
Narrative review.
The ethical basis of rescue therapy, the equipoise concept, and intention-to-treat analysis are examined in the setting of a hypothetical randomized trial comparing corticosteroids vs. placebo in pediatric septic shock.
Retrospective cohort study.
Extracorporeal Life Support Organization registry was queried for all neonatal and pediatric ECMO courses recorded. Each ECMO course was treated as an independent event, and was included if duration was &gt; or =25 hrs with occurrence between 1987 and 2007. Courses with a duration &gt;458 hrs or with an indication for ECMO during cardiopulmonary resuscitation were excluded from analysis. Mechanical component failure data were extracted from the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization registry for the oxygenator, raceway, other tubing, pigtail connectors, heat exchanger, and air in the circuit.
Prospective follow-up study conducted in 12 French pediatric intensive care units over a 24-month period.
Excluding those in refractory shock or in brain death at admission, a total of 125 children aged &lt;17 years admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit with severe trauma (Injury Severity Score &gt; or =16) were included.
Matched case-control study.
CICU at Children's Hospital Boston.
Central line-associated BSI cases were identified between April 2004 and December 2006. We identified two randomly selected control patients who had a central vascular catheter and were admitted within 7 days of each index case.
Single-center, prospective case series with historical comparisons.
Pediatric cardiovascular intensive care unit in tertiary care children's hospital.
The study group consisted of consecutive patients &gt; or =35 wks gestational age and weight &gt; or =2 kg admitted to our cardiac intensive care unit over an 18-month period following stage I palliation of HLHS (n = 36). Excluded were nonsurvivors, patients supported on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or those with a history of NEC or fetal intervention. These data were compared with a similar cohort of patients admitted to the cardiac intensive care unit over an 18-month period before the implementation of the feeding algorithm (n = 27).
A feeding algorithm was implemented in the study group in the postoperative period for initiation and advancement of enteral nutrition.
Prospective, case-control study.
Neonatal intensive care unit.
One hundred twenty consecutive preterm neonates who had at least one other risk factor for early-onset neonatal sepsis.
None.
Survey.
Organ procurement organizations in the United States.
Pediatric patients who suffered brain death in the United States in 2005 and who were medically suitable for organ donation.
None.
Interventional laboratory study.
Children's hospital research center.
A pediatric lung model was created with Pflexs of the inspiratory pressure-volume (P-V) curve set at 5 and 10 cm H2O using the ASL 5000 Test Lung (IngMar Medical, Pittsburgh, PA). Three ETT sizes (3.0, 4.0, 5.0 mm) were tested with and without a 25% airleak. P-V curves were obtained using an automated constant flow method at ten different flow rates.
We describe a cohort of critically ill children who received IV LEV for status epilepticus, including refractory or nonconvulsive status, or acute repetitive seizures.
Retrospective cohort study using data reported to the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization registry.
Multi-institutional data.
Patients &lt;18 years of age undergoing E-CPR during 1992-2005.
None.
A countywide trauma registry identified all pediatric trauma patients with potential VAP treated at a Regional Trauma Center. After a structured chart review, descriptive statistics were used to characterize the population.
Retrospective study.
A tertiary care children's hospital.
We reviewed the charts of patients admitted to the cardiac intensive care unit and neonatal intensive care unit in 2005 who were treated with vancomycin, and those admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit who were treated with vancomycin or linezolid during 2004 and 2005.
None.
Case report and literature review. Our Institutional Review Board waived the need for consent.
Pediatric intensive care unit in a tertiary care children's hospital.
A 12-year-old girl who developed profound hypoxia following routine dental extraction under intravenous opiate sedation and became progressively obtunded due to marked hypoventilation without hypoxic arousal, requiring mechanical ventilation. She had evidence of severe right heart failure, but no cardiac, pulmonary, neurologic, or neuromuscular cause was identified. The diagnosis of CCHS was suspected and subsequently confirmed by blood polymerase chain reaction analysis that revealed a heterozygous polyalanine expansion mutation of the PHOX2B gene (five polyalanine repeats).
Medical notes; retrospective study.
Identical pattern of clinical presentation in two patients referred for support with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Our Institutional Review Board waived the need for consent.
Case report.
Pediatric critical care unit in a tertiary care hospital.
An 8-yr-old girl suffering from 50% body surface area burns and clinical sepsis in whom a double lumen subclavian venous catheter, placed 12 days earlier, could not be removed.
Concomitant abduction and internal rotation of the shoulder and outward traction in the scapular plane plus backward pressure on the first rib while carefully pulling out the entrapped catheter.
The U.S. National Library of Medicine (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrezPubMed) was searched for the term pediatric and the following individual terms, cardiac arrest, asphyxia, traumatic brain injury, status epilepticus, stroke, cerebral ischemia, and cerebral hemorrhage, to generate abstracts of additional citations that were then screened for potential inclusion. The authors were also aware of a number of key recent articles in both pediatric and adult neurointensive care and these were also screened.
Promising articles were reviewed and the decision as to whether they were included was made at the discretion of the section editors.
Thirteen schizophrenic patients (mean age: 40.1+/-13.5 years) were followed up for 16 weeks and assessed for changes of clinical symptoms and ERP components P300 representing target detection processes and N400 indexing context integration in word recognition processes. Three subjects had to be excluded from the ERP recording sessions because of excessive blink artefacts and movements.
We analysed data from 4,247 outpatients with schizophrenia who started olanzapine monotherapy in the 3-year, prospective, observational SOHO study to determine factors associated with olanzapine dose adjustments and how these impact on treatment effectiveness and tolerability.
We investigated the association between COMT Val (158)Met genotype and cognitive flexibility as assessed by signal discrimination in the Continuous Performance Test - Identical Pairs version in a cohort of 111 German schizophrenic patients.
EMBLEM (European Mania in Bipolar Evaluation of Medication) was a 2-year, prospective, observational study of health outcomes associated with the treatment of mania. Severity of mania and depression were assessed at baseline and 6 weeks using the YMRS and the 5-item version of the HAMD, respectively.
We included 15 patients with schizophrenia from a child and adolescent psychiatric department (8 male; mean age 19.3 [SD+/-1.2, range 17.2-21.2] years). Patients had been under clozapine treatment, followed by aripiprazole augmentation. Retrospectively, patients' medical records were reviewed, using a rating scale in analogy to the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale.
This randomized, crossover study examined the effects of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor) on the pharmacokinetic parameters of a single dose of the novel antipsychotic agent, paliperidone extended-release tablets (paliperidone ER), in healthy subjects.
Whole-genome microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization was carried out on 28 children (24 boys and four girls) diagnosed as ASD and 62 Korean adults (45 males and 17 females) without any signs of abnormalities and family history of genetic disorders as normal controls. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization and capillary electrophoresis-single-strand conformational polymorphism were used for quantitative verification of the ASD-associated CNVs.
A total of 138 children diagnosed as autistic based on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition criteria and Autism Behavior Checklist scoring and 138 age and sex matched children who are nonautistic were tested for five genetic polymorphisms, that is, cytosolic serine hydroxyl methyl transferase (SHMT1 C1420T), methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR C677T and MTHFR A1298C), methionine synthase reductase (MTRR A66G), methionine synthase (MS A2756G) using PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism methods. Fisher's exact test and logistic regression analysis were used for statistical analyses.
One hundred and three inpatients (74 women and 29 men) with a major depressive episode were assessed prospectively for antidepressant efficacy after 4 weeks of treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) and non-SSRI drugs.
We have applied the same methodology to a UK sample of 506 cases with bipolar disorder and 510 controls.
We screened all the coding regions of GCLM and their intronic flanking vicinities in 353 patients with schizophrenia by direct DNA sequencing.
The Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI) with health status and demographic survey was sent by e-mail to 241 members of the Association of Educators in Imaging and Radiologic Sciences Inc. The survey yielded a 62% response rate. Independent sample t-tests, regression analysis and one-way ANOVAs were used to compare data.
Twenty-eight emergency preparedness plans were retrieved electronically and reviewed from a convenience sample of accredited radiologic science programs provided by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology Web site.
The data used is from a maternal health study carried out in the slums of Nairobi, Kenya. A total of 1,927 women (out of 2,482) who had a pregnancy outcome in 2004-2005 were selected and interviewed. Seventeen variable items on autonomy were used to construct women's decision-making, freedom of movement, and overall autonomy. Further, all health facilities serving the study population were assessed with regard to the number, training and competency of obstetric staff; services offered; physical infrastructure; and availability, adequacy and functional status of supplies and other essential equipment for safe delivery, among others. A total of 25 facilities were surveyed.
A prospective, consecutive case series of 578 diagnostic vitreous sample attempts performed between February 23, 2007 and September 31, 2008. A standardized technique of vitreous sampling followed by intravitreal injection of therapeutic medication was performed. All subjects were followed for adverse events after sampling/injection.
We genotyped 2 SNPs, namely, LOC387715 rs10490924 and HTRA1 rs11200638, in 159 exudative AMD patients and 140 age- and sex-matched control subjects. All the four possible haplotypes of these two SNPs were detected. Comparisons of the risk genotypes and risk or protective haplotypes across multiple populations were performed.
Sixty-three eyes of 63 consecutive patients with AMD or AMD + PCV who underwent photodynamic therapy were included in this study. Fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography were performed to diagnose AMD and AMD + PCV. Change in mean visual acuity and recurrence of active lesion during the follow-up period up to 2 years were assessed.
To identify the genetic events that cooperate with loss of the RB1 gene function, we performed a whole genome sampling assay based on single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping. We used DNA isolated from 25 sporadic, unilateral RB tumors and matched blood samples.
Cases of acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy treated at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary from 1990 to 2002 and cases from the literature were identified. Data on visual acuity, ocular symptoms, bilateral involvement, foveal involvement at presentation, and treatment regimens were recorded.
A search of the English, German, and Spanish language MEDLINE database was conducted. A total of 654 references spanning the period through early 2008 were individually evaluated.
A retrospective review was performed of consecutive patients treated with intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg) for ME secondary to BRVO/HRVO from May 2005 to August 2006 with follow-up through February 2007. Re-treatment was performed at monthly or longer intervals at the discretion of the treating physician.
This was a consecutive, retrospective, and comparative cohort study. Patients undergoing vitrectomy from September 2006 through November 2007 at the Emory Eye Center for complications of proliferative diabetic retinopathy were identified and reviewed. A total of 33 eyes pretreated with bevacizumab and 104 untreated eyes were observed for postoperative vitreous hemorrhage and final visual acuity.
This was a prospective, randomized, controlled multicenter trial in patients with CRVO or branch retinal vein occlusion, best-corrected visual acuity &lt; or =20/50, and onset of symptoms within 11 days before treatment. In each group, patients were randomized to either hemodilution or thrombolysis with 50 mg of rt-PA with concomitant intravenous heparinization. The primary clinical outcome measure was improvement in best-corrected visual acuity from baseline at 1 year.
A prospective, nonrandomized, interventional study. Thirty-seven consecutive eyes with macular edema were included in the study. For all eyes, BCVA, central retinochoroidal thickness at standardized A-scan, central retinal thickness, and central retinal sensitivity recorded with a spectral scanning laser ophthalmoscope optical coherence tomography/microperimeter device were evaluated at baseline and 7, 15, 30, 37, 45, and 60 days after initial treatment. All patients received 2 intravitreal bevacizumab injections at 1-month interval.
In this pilot study, eight patients with RAP underwent indocyanine green angiography (ICGA)-guided single-session verteporfin PDT followed by intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg) within a 0-day +/- 1-day interval. All patients were naïve to treatment. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), fluorescein angiography, ICGA, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were performed at baseline and at each follow-up visit. All patients received three consecutive monthly IVB injections; thereafter, retreatment with bevacizumab was performed in the case of worsening BCVA or a deterioration of angiographic or OCT findings.
Patients with a known history of glaucoma and those receiving triamcinolone acetonide were excluded from the study. Fundus photographs were cropped to optic disk images only, which were then randomized and independently graded by two glaucoma specialists. In patients who received treatments in only one eye, the fellow eye was used as a control.
The study population consisted of 26 AMD patients (26 eyes) with the exclusion criterion of prior treatment of the choroidal neovascular membranes. Factor P was detected immunocytochemically on paraffin sections (7 microm) by a polyclonal rabbit antihuman antibody.
Thirty-two eyes from 32 normal patients underwent complete ophthalmic evaluation. Macular scanning using the StratusOCT and the RTVue-100 OCT were performed for a total of three times each on the same visit. The average retinal thicknesses of the nine macular sectors as defined by the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study, along with the foveal center point and macular volume, were recorded. The SD, the coefficient of variation, and the intraclass correlation coefficient were calculated for each parameter studied. Comparisons were made between the two OCTs in terms of retinal thicknesses measurements, their reproducibility, and macular regional differences. Correlations between retinal thickness and demographic variables (age and gender) were also investigated. Due to known differences in segmentation algorithms of the two OCTs, software calipers were used to measure the distance from the internal limiting membrane to the photoreceptor inner segment-outer segment junction at the foveal center point on all RTVue scans to allow a more fair comparison.
Eyes of patients with cuticular drusen were imaged using a prototype spectral domain optical coherence tomography instrument with 5-microm axial resolution. Thickness maps were obtained after automated segmentation of the internal limiting membrane and retinal pigment epithelium layers using a proprietary algorithm. The volume of subretinal fluid (SRF) was calculated using a manual segmentation technique that involved drawing boundaries around the SRF. The repeatability of these measurements was tested by comparing the volume measurements from multiple scans performed on the same day in four eyes of three patients.
This study is a retrospective analysis of data from patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration treated with ranibizumab. Preferential hyperacuity perimetry (PHP) were performed before and within 10 days of treatment. Pre- and posttreatment PHP metamorphopsia maps of contours showing 6 levels of metamorphopsia severity (S1 through S6; least to most distortion) were analyzed. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) outputs were subjected to standardized grading to generate metrics on subretinal fluid height, maximum retinal thickness, outer high-reflectivity band thickness, and height of pigment epithelial detachment (OCT metrics).
This was a retrospective consecutive case series. The Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Microbiology Laboratory database was reviewed to identify all patients with intraocular cultures positive for Proteus species between 1983 and 2007. Clinical records were reviewed to ascertain the clinical presentation, management, and visual acuity outcomes.
Twenty-four eyes of 13 patients with retinitis pigmentosa, aged 13 years to 67 years, were studied. The integrity of the photoreceptor cilia, also known as the inner/outer segment junction of the photoreceptors, the outer nuclear layer, and retinal pigment epithelium, was evaluated outside, across, and inside the ring with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT).
This study used a retrospective review and a comparison of all patients newly referred from retinal Practice 1 (J.T.T., R.N.S.) for LV consultation, from July 2005 to June 2006 (Year 1, preranibizumab) and from July 2006 to June 2007 (Year 2, ranibizumab available), and a retrospective review of patients referred by retinal Practice 2 (M.J.E.) since February 2007.
Data from 445 patients diagnosed with PMC in the period from 1978 to 2003 were reviewed and analyzed. Total thyroidectomy was performed in 404 patients and loboisthmusectomy in 41. Neck dissection took place in 226 patients (49.7%), with 166 of only the central compartment and 60 of both the central and lateral compartments. Radioiodine ((131)I) ablation treatment was given to 389 patients.
Forty-two children (mean age, 14.75 years) underwent US-FNA of 52 thyroid nodules. The specificity, sensitivity, diagnostic accuracy, and unsatisfactory rates were compared to other similar studies.
We performed a retrospective multivariate logistic regression analysis of US features, clinicopathological data, and the latency period between radiation exposure and the diagnosis of cancer in 94 patients who were 10.6-34.3 years old (16.5 +/- 6.2, mean +/- standard deviation) at the time of diagnosis and 0.1-18.0 years old (5.6 +/- 4.2) at the time of the Chernobyl accident.
Published series of thyroid FNAB with &gt;200 FNAB and available histological data with sufficient raw data to recalculate statistics were analyzed. Considering indeterminate and malignant results to be positive FNAB results, since, in a four-tier system, both lead to surgical management, specificity, sensitivity, accuracy, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, FN, and false-positive (FP) rates were recalculated. Differences between reported and recalculated statistics were then evaluated for significance.
Normal Fisher rat thyroid follicular cells (FRTL5 cells) and tumorigenic rat thyroid carcinoma cells (FRTL-Tc cells) derived from FRTL5 cells were employed. The cells were injected into thyroids or subcutaneously into left flanks of rats alone or in combination with skin-derived fibroblasts. In groups of rats, fibroblasts were irradiated with 0.1 or 4 Gy x-ray 3 days before inoculation. In vitro growth of FRTL-Tc and FRTL-5 cells were evaluated using the fibroblast-conditioned medium and in a co-culture system with fibroblasts.
The effects of intrinsic and extrinsic glucocorticoid on the D2 activity and mRNA in rat aorta media were studied using metyrapone, a corticosterone synthesis inhibitor, and dexamethasone (DEX). Further, the effects of DEX on D2 expression were studied using the cultured rat VSMCs.
During the last 34 years 852 follicular cell-derived DTC cases (83% papillary [PTC], 17% follicular [FTC] carcinoma) presented in the Endocrine Unit of the Department of Clinical Therapeutics in Alexandra Hospital (18.8% men, mean age 42.4 +/- 14.5 years). Patients were classified in three period groups according to year of diagnosis: period 1, 1963-1982; period 2, 1983-1992; and period 3, 1993-2007. We recorded the histological type, age at diagnosis, and, in period 3, the type of pre-existing thyroid disease, the stage, and tumor size.
This was a prospective, controlled, intervention study involving 67 subjects: 28 patients with major depression and hypothyroidism on adequate levothyroxine therapy randomized for treatment with fluoxetine (n = 13) or sertraline (n = 15); 29 patients with major depression and normal thyroid function treated with fluoxetine (n = 15) or sertraline (n = 14) and 10 control patients with hypothyroidism on adequate levothyroxine therapy without depression. Main outcome measures included thyrotropin, thyroxine (T(4)), free thyroxine, triiodothyronine (T(3)), anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies, and Hamilton depression (HAM-D) rating scale.
Reference intervals were calculated for serum FT(4) (n = 1426) and FT(3) (n = 1107) obtained from healthy children between January 1, 2008, and June 30, 2008, from Children's National Medical Center and Georgetown University Medical Center Bioanalytical Core Laboratory, Washington, DC. Serum samples were analyzed using isotope dilution liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) with deuterium-labeled internal standards.
TSHR mutations were characterized by determination of cell surface expression, cAMP accumulation, and linear regression analysis of constitutive activity.
We examined candidates listed in the United States from 1988 to 2007 from the Scientific Renal Transplant Registry (SRTR) database that were relisted after loss of a primary kidney transplant (n=15,980). The primary outcome was change in panel reactive antibody (PRA) from prior to recipient's initial transplant to the subsequent listing. Absolute change in PRA levels were examined in general linear models and the likelihood of becoming newly sensitized in logistic models.
Renal transplants were performed between major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-identical animals differing only in the source of their maternally derived cytoplasmic DNA, using a protocol, which uniformly leads to tolerance within standard MHC-inbred lines. In an attempt to correlate transplant results with a putative marker for disparities in cytoplasmically inherited minor histocompatibility antigens, we examined one hypervariable region of mtDNA, designated hypervariable region 1 (HV1).
Encapsulated cells were transplanted subcutaneously (n=2), or cells were injected without encapsulation (n=1) and outcomes compared. BLI was performed to monitor cell survival.
EC was induced by 2, 4, 6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). The HSCs, MSCs, HSCs+MSCs, derived from male Sprague-Dawley rats, were cultured and labeled with bromodeoxyuridine and then transplanted into the EC rat. The colon samples were collected for histologic evaluation at days 7, 14, and 21 posttransplantation. Immunohistochemical staining, polymerase chain reaction, and fluorescence in situ hybridization were used to detect donor stem cells population.
Two hundred islets, the number of islets from a single mouse pancreas, were grafted into the liver of streptozotocin-induced diabetic C57BL/6 mice. Adenosine was administered once at the time of islet transplantation. Mononuclear cells in the liver of mice receiving islets were isolated and examined by flow cytometry.
Demographic, anthropometrical, and laboratory data, as well as family history of type 2 DM (first degree relatives), were collected from 44 ITx recipients. Risk factors for type 2 DM, such as positive family history of type 2 DM (n=11) and overweight (body mass index &gt;25 kg/m2; n=14), were analyzed separately and in combination, which was designated as "type 2 DM phenotype" (n=5). Differences in outcomes (time-to-graft dysfunction and failure) were compared using Kaplan-Meier curves. Cox regression analysis was performed to control for possible confounding factors.
Twenty-five renal transplant patients were recruited and received TAC therapy, of which nine of these patients were treated with statin therapy for dyslipidemia. The effects of TAC on plasma total cholesterol, TG, HDL-C, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, cholesterol ester transfer protein, hepatic lipase and LPL concentration and activity were determined from patients plasma samples collected before the transplant surgery (baseline), and weekly for four consecutive weeks after surgery and TAC administration.
In a prospective, multicenter, open-label study, deceased-donor kidney transplant recipients at protocol-specified risk of DGF (defined as &gt; or =1 dialysis session during the first week posttransplant excluding day 1) were randomized to start everolimus therapy on day 1 posttransplant (immediate everolimus [IE]), or from week 5 (delayed everolimus [DE]) with mycophenolic acid until everolimus was initiated. All patients received anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies, cyclosporine A, and corticosteroids. A planned 3-month analysis from this 12-month study is presented here.
We examined patient and allograft survival according to donor and recipient CMV serostatus in 10,190 UK adult and pediatric deceased donor renal transplant recipients transplanted between 2000 and 2007. We also ascertained CMV prophylaxis strategies in all UK renal transplant units.
In this case-control study, we examined the association of tacrolimus (TAC), mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and prednisone with BKN in renal allograft recipients transplanted between 1997 and 2004 at our center who underwent biopsies for allograft dysfunction. Drug levels or doses were recorded during the 3 months before the index biopsy. Random effects logistic modeling was used for data analysis.
Total of 4128 urine and serum samples obtained from renal transplant patients were analyzed for BKV positivity by real-time polymerase chain reaction in 433 patients in cross-sectional and in 233 patients in longitudinal manner, respectively. The prospective longitudinal analysis included seven measurements during the first posttransplant year.
A cross-sectional study of 12, 401 prevalent adult dialysis patients from 41 renal units across England and Wales was performed. The proportion of patients registered on the deceased donor transplant waiting list was determined for each renal unit. Patient- and center-specific factors that influence the probability of being listed for transplantation were identified and used to adjust for differences observed between units. The annual change in the size of the transplant waiting list was examined before and after presentation of these data.
Specific variables significantly associated with listing were age, primary renal disease, graft number, social deprivation, and ethnicity but not gender. Centre-specific variables included size of renal unit, size of living donor program, and listing practice for living donor transplantation. Whether the renal unit was also a transplant unit was not significant. After adjusting for these variables, there remained unexplained variation between renal units in the proportion of dialysis patients on the waiting list. An increase in the number of patients listed for transplantation has been observed since presenting these data.
We evaluated 678 liver stiffness measurements (LSMs) obtained in the peritransplantation period from 24 LDLT recipients, 24 corresponding donors (preoperatively only), another five donors with a remnant right liver, and three deceased donor liver transplantation recipients. The LSM was performed once preoperatively, every morning postoperatively until postoperative day 14, and three times a week after that until the patient was discharged from the hospital.
By using a uniform comprehensive medical record review process, data were collected on 3565 living liver donors who had donated grafts by the end of December 2006 at 38 Japanese centers.
In a 12-month multicenter open-label study, cardiac transplant patients received everolimus (trough level 3-8 ng/mL) with reduced cyclosporine A (CsA) or MMF (3 g/day) with standard CsA, both with corticosteroids+/-induction therapy.
Thirty-five asymptomatic pediatric thoracic Tx patients were categorized into three groups according to their EBV load levels as follows: undetectable viral load (UVL), chronic low viral load (LVL) and chronic high viral load (HVL). Global and EBV-specific T-cell immunity were assessed by ATP release using Cylex Immuknow and T Cell Memory assays.
A 7-year prospective cohort study assessed nonadherence longitudinally using electronic spirometry for 24 months. During follow-up, BOS, retransplantation, and survival were stratified by adherence groups.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 32,757 Medicare primary transplant recipients in the United States Renal Data System from January 1, 2000 through July 31, 2004. PCP infection was defined by Medicare claims using International Classification of Disease, 9th Revision codes. The incidence of PCP infections, graft loss, and death were measured.
Articles were selected through a probability sample of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published in Annals of Internal Medicine, BMJ, JAMA, The Lancet, and NEJM during odd numbered months of 1994, 1999, and 2004. RCTs were independently reviewed and coded by two abstractors, with adjudication by a third. Studies were classified as reporting: (1) HTE analysis, utilizing a formal test for heterogeneity or treatment-by-covariate interaction, (2) subgroup analysis only, involving no formal test for heterogeneity or interaction; or (3) neither. Chi-square tests and multiple logistic regression were used to identify variables associated with HTE reporting.
Children ages 12-60 months who received a first dose of MMRV in February 2006-June 2007 in a managed care organization were included in the study. Subjects were optimally matched on age, sex, and calendar date of vaccination to children who received MMR+V concomitantly in November 2003-January 2006, before MMRV licensure. Potential cases of febrile convulsion were identified through administrative data and adjudicated by expert panel, according to pre-specified criteria.
Seventy patients with essential hypertension of grade 2 or grade 3 were randomly assigned to routine group and SXC group. There were 35 cases in each group. The patients in the routine group were administered with 2.5 mg levoamlodipine and 40 mg telmisartan once daily, and 1.5 g SXC was administered orally to the patients in the SXC group three times daily besides levoamlodipine and telmisartan treatment. They were all treated for two weeks. Twenty-four-hour ABPM, trough to peak ratio and smoothness index were measured before and after the treatment.
Fifty patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery for gastric cancer were randomly divided into control group and Xuesaitong group, with 25 patients in each group. Conventional anti-infection and transfusion treatment was given to the patients in the control group, and intravenous drip infusion of 400 mg Xuesaitong Injection added into 250 mL 5% glucose injection was administered once daily to the patients in the Xuesaitong group for 6 days from the first day after laparoscopic operation besides the conventional anti-infection and transfusion treatment. The values of prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), fibrinogen (FIB) and international normalized ratio (INR) were detected by using blood coagulation method, and the values of D-dimer (D-D) before operation, instantly and 3, 5, 7 days after operation were detected by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the two groups. Furthermore, the development of deep vein thrombosis on the day 7 after operation was observed by vein angiography.
The outpatients and inpatients with lower limb arteriosclerosis from Shanghai Yueyang Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine were randomly divided into control group and treatment group after color Doppler ultrasound inspection, and there were 30 cases in each group. The patients in the treatment group were treated with simvastatin and a Chinese compound herbal medicine for reinforcing qi, activating blood circulation, expelling phlegm and dredging collaterals, and the patients in the control group were treated only with simvastatin. The color Doppler ultrasound imaging of lower limb arteries including inside diameter, intima-media thickness, and plaque area in all the patients were examined after 6-month treatment. The levels of serum total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) were detected too.
A total of 1 582 outpatients with menopause syndrome who met with the diagnosis and inclusion criteria in seven grade 3 hospitals from October 2006 to June 2007 were included. A clinical epidemiological survey in the patients was carried out. The syndrome elements of disease location and characteristics were extracted and analyzed statistically by standardizing the syndrome differentiation of experts' experience in traditional Chinese medicine.
Sixteen healthy volunteers were randomly divided into SJ5 group and SJ5 plus GB34 group, and there were 8 volunteers in each group. The volunteers in the two groups received needling at corresponding points on the right hand or foot respectively. Nuclear magnetic resonance (1.5T, GE Corporation) was used for functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the brain before and during the needling, and the obtained experimental data in the regional brain were processed and analyzed by the method of region of interest (ROI).
The L4-larvae were cultured with 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100% of BKT with the final concentration of 0.33 g/mL. Ultraviolet irradiation [20 J/(m(2) x min)], heat-shock (36 degrees centigrade, 2 h), and paraquat treatment (2 mmol/L, 2h) were exerted as the stresses. Reproduction was assayed by the egg number in uterus, brood size, and generation time.
The mouse model of acute inflammation with increase of capillary permeability was induced by intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid. An orthogonal design with 2 levels (used and unused) was applied to assign the combinations groups of active ingredients including naringin and neohesperidin, peoniflorin, and platycodin. Aspirin and normal saline were administered as control. The pharmacodynamic interactions were analyzed by the optical density (OD) of infiltrated Evans blue.
Forty Wistar male rats were used to establish the NAFLD model by subcutaneous injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) for 4 weeks (twice weekly) along with high-fat and low-protein diet for 2 weeks. After two-week administration, the rats were randomly divided into four groups: untreated group, high-dose QSHYD group, medium-dose QSHYD group and low-dose QSHYD group. Another six rats were used as normal control. After 2-week treatment, the following indexes were detected: (1) liver pathology; (2) contents of serum adiponectin (ADP) and liver triglyceride (TG); (3) concentrations of liver FFA, adiponectin receptor 2 (AdipoR2), malonyl-coenzyme A (malony1-CoA), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase), fatty acid synthase (FAS) and carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT-1).
(1) Sixty mice were randomly divided into Liangxue Jiedu Decoction group, compound Indigo Naturalis capsule group, acitretin capsule group and normal saline group. Another 10 mice were selected as blank control. After 2-week administration, mice were sacrificed to obtain samples. After hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining, tail scales with granular layers were calculated by an optical microscope. (2) Except for ten mice in blank group, sixty female mice were injected intraperitoneally with diethylstilbestrol once daily. After 3-day injection, mice were randomly divided into four groups and treated as above description. After 2-week treatment, all mice were injected intraperitoneally with colchicine (2 mg/kg), and sacrificed 6 h after the injection. The mitotic rate in virginal epithelium was calculated after HE staining.
Sixty SD rats were divided into 3 groups: sham-operated group, untreated group and catechin group. Animal model was reproduced by 5/6 nephrectomy. After 8- and 12-week administration, rats were sacrificed. Renal MVD was measured by immunohistochemical method with CD34 marking. Activities of ACE in plasma and renal cortices were measured by ultraviolet spectrophotometer, and Ang II contents in plasma and renal cortices were measured by radioimmunoassay. Glomerular sclerosis index (GSI) and tubule interstitial score (TIS) were calculated by semiquantitative integration with hematoxylin and eosin staining and periodic acid-Schiff staining.
The stereo localization technique and push-and-pull perfusion of the rat brain nucleus were adopted for collecting the hypothalamic MPOA perfusate of the female rats with normal sexual cycle, and also for collecting the MPOA perfusate of ovariectomized rats after electro-acupuncture treatment as acupuncture perfusate (AP). After being respectively microinjected into MPOA of the ovariectomized rats, the influence of the different perfusates on vagina cytology and serum estradiol (E2) level was observed. The contents of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), dopamine (DA), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate (Glu), aspartate (Asp) and beta-endorphin (beta-EP) in the perfusate of each group were detected by radioimmunoassay or high performance liquid chromatography, and then the varieties and contents of these substances in the perfusate of each group were compared and analyzed.
Hippocampal sclerosis (HS), focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) type IIB, cortical tuberous sclerosis (TSC) lesions, gangliogliomas, grey matter heterotopias and hemimegalencephaly from a wide age range of patients using both surgical and post mortem tissue specimens were studied.
We performed a retrospective review of 44 patients who had laparoscopic Hartmann's reversal (Group A). On a case-control basis, these patients were compared to 44 patients (Group B) who had open Hartmann's reversal.
To determine during which BB stage and how frequently the DR is affected by AD-related neurofibrillary changes, we studied the DR of 118 well-characterized individuals of the Brain Bank of the Brazilian Aging Brain Study Group categorized according to the BB. Thirty-eight of these individuals were staged as BB = 0, and 80 as BB &gt;or= 1.
Bereaved (n= 62) and non-bereaved individuals (n= 50) were evaluated within 2 weeks and at 6 months following loss using the Centre for Epidemiologic Studies -- Depression, Spielberger State Anxiety and Anger, Social Support Questionnaire and changes in appetite, cigarette and alcohol consumption, cortisol and lipids.
The NZMHS is a nationally representative face-to-face household survey, carried out in 2003-2004 with a response rate of 73.3%. It surveyed 12,992 New Zealand adults aged 16 and over Pacific people were over sampled This paper focuses on the 2374 Pacific participants but includes for comparison 8160 non-Maori-non-Pacific participants (Others).
Multiple logistic regression models were used to produce estimates weighted to account for diferent probabilities of selection and taking account of the complex survey design.
A fixed comparative non-experimental design was utilised where participants were selected using direct control based on their self-identified ethnic group resulting in sub-samples of 11 Maori, 11 Pacific and 11 Pakeha (n=33). Each participant completed the Neurobehavioural Cognitive Status Examination (Cognistat) and the Brain Injury Community Rehabilitation Outcome Scales (BICRO-39 Scales).
At the 12-month measurement point, mothers (N=1207) were interviewed about their parenting practices using a modified version of the Parent Behaviour Checklist.
The DHAHS was a cross-sectional population based study of people age 35-74 years carried out in Auckland between 2002-03. A total of 1011 Pacific people comprising of 484 Samoan, 252 Tongan, 109 Niuean, 116 Cook Islanders and 47 'Other Pacific' (mainly Fijian) and 1745 European participants took part in the survey Participants answered a self-administered questionnaire to assess whether they consumed alcohol, their drinking patterns and consumption levels and reasons for stopping drinking.
(A) The New Zealand Mental Health Survey (NZMHS) is a nationally representative face-to-face household survey, carried out in 2003-2004. It surveyed 12,992 New Zealand adults aged 16 or more including 2374 Pacflc peoples (500 Cook Islands Maori) and 2457 New Zealand Maori. (B) An extract from the Mental Health Information National Collection (MHINC). This is a national dataset that is reported to by mental health services around New Zealand.
Multiple logistic regression models are used to produce estimates from both sets of data. In the case of A) the NZMHS the results are weighted to account for different probabilities of selection and analysis takes account of the complex survey design.
The study used qualitative methods, specifically individual interviews were conducted in Tongan or English. Participants were recruited through community networks in Auckland. A number of Tongan churches, Tongan medical clinics such as Langimailie, and kava clubs were approached to recruit participants. The open ended interview schedule covered themes such as access, quantity, frequency, and problems associated with kava use. The interviews were conducted by a Tongan researcher either in English or Tongan. All interviews were translated and transcribed into English. A thematic analysis based on multiple readings of the transcripts was used The analysis identified commonalities and differences. The study was granted ethical approval by the University of Auckland Human Subjects Ethics Committee in December 2004. Interviews were conducted at the beginning of 2005. Interviews were undertaken in a place where the participants felt comfortable. Interview times were arranged at a time convenient for the participants. All participants were given information sheets prior to interviews, and participants were asked to sign consent forms before the interviews commenced. These forms were provided in Tongan and English versions. Most of the interviews ranged between one to three hours. Interviews were audiotaped, and confidentiality was maintained throughout the research.
Twelve men were interviewed. All participants were Tongan men born and raised in Tonga. The ages of men ranged between 30 and 75 years. Most of the men had been residing in New Zealand for over 30 years, although some men had only been in New Zealand between 2-18 years. Most of the men were employed and a few had retired from work. Most of these men also belonged to a church. All of the men who participated were married.
A qualitative research methodology offace to face interviews was used to interview NZ born Niuean women and their alcohol consumption. Participants were recruited by using a snow ball methodology. Participants were also approached throughout the community on the telephone and via email/internet about the research. Participants were also from Niuean gatherings such as Niuean cultural workshops, weaving groups, church groups, and sports groups, Niuean websites. A semi-structured interview format was used making it more informal and comfortable for the participant by using open ended questions. These questions include first drinking experiences, reasons for drinking, drinking styles, drinking venues and environments, times to drink, risky behaviours and attitudes, pregnancy and sexual behaviours. The interviews ranged from 1-2 hours. Ethical approval for the research was obtained from the University of Auckland Human Participants Ethics Committee in June 2004. Interviews were done in Niuean or English optional for the participants in the study. An important feature of the research process and cultural appropriateness is that I am New Zealand born but was raised in Niue Island as a young child. I am fluent in both English and Niuean languages. My Niuean cultural back ground and knowledge will be beneficial in the formulation of ideas and interpretations in the interview discussions and research data analysis. The researcher will interpret the cultural knowledge and understanding throughout the discussions which will be useful when gathering and analysing empirical information gathered from the research.
There were nine New Zealand born Niuean women aged between 18-45yrs plus living in Auckland who participated. Two of the participants are half palagi (European) and half Niuean. This is a reflection of the young population that many Niuean women today are born into in New Zealand, as the majority of Niues population is New Zealand born. The NZ born young women views were highlighted in this study because of the growing population of Niue communities in Auckland, New Zealand. The participants were from diverse backgrounds, from professional career minded women, beneficiaries, single, married, mothers, solo parent, tertiary students.
We performed a randomized simulation study to compare two systems of cardiac arrest response: public access AED vs. standard manual defibrillation. The study was conducted in two phases at two different settings: (1) in a contiguous United States (CONUS)-based training combat support hospital (CSH) and (2) at a deployed CSH within a combat forward operating base (FOB). The primary outcome was t(defib) and the secondary outcome was difficulty of use.
the Iranian Veterans Administration of the Khorasan province invited their Iranian military amputees from the Iran-Iraq War (1980-1988) to its medical center for evaluation. The patients filled out a detailed questionnaire and were interviewed and examined by each team member.
We performed a retrospective study involving the whole medical evacuations out of a theater of operations to the benefit of the French Armed forces, for a suspected diagnosis of ACS.
Twenty eight subjects with MDH referred to our Allergy/Immunology Unit were enrolled from May 2006 to May 2007. Eight healthy subjects served as controls. In addition to common diagnostic tools used in the diagnostic algorithm of MDH, enrolled subjects also underwent ASST and APST.
PM1, PM2,5 and PM10 exposures were measured by means of pre-calibrated portable laser-operated particle analyzers. PM10 data from the ARPA official monitoring stations were also evaluated.
a small-area epidemiological study based on descriptive statistics, socioeconomic deprivation variables, analysis of spatial heterogeneity disease mapping and time trend analysis was carried out.
age-standardised rate, standardised mortality ratios (SMRs), SMRs adjusted by socioeconomic deprivation, spatial heterogeneity test results, empirical and hierarchical Bayesian estimators, and temporal trends of selected causes are shown.
Italy, Taranto province (581,508 inhabitants).
incidence data in 29 municipalities of the Taranto province were extracted from the Jonico Salentino Cancer Registry (RTJS) for the following cancer sites: lung (ICDX C33-C34); pleura, pleuric mesothelioma (ICDX C45.0); bladder, malignancies only (ICDX C67); brain (ICDX C70-72); non-Hodgkin lymphoma (ICDX C82-85, C96); leukaemia (ICDX C91-5). Age standardized incidence rates for the whole province were computed. High-level risk areas were classified using a Poisson model, computing area-specific p-values associated to the null hypothesis of no increased risk (i.e. relative risk equal to 1). A hierarchical spatial Bayesian model was estimated to strengthen results: specifically two additional variance components, accounting for relative risk spatial autocorrelation and excess heterogeneity respectively, were considered in the model specification. Bayesian mapping of disease incidence allows for the drawing of regularized (smoothed) maps. To adjust for the effect of socio-economic deprivation, a five-variable index was introduced into the model as an ecological covariate.
cross sectional study in the framework of a survey of children using a self-administered questionnaire.
35412 children attending primary schools in the provinces of Latina and Rome, located in the Lazio region (Italy), in the 1998-2001 time period.
Odds Ratios (ORs) and their relative 95% Confidence Intervals (95% CI) computed through univariate and multivariate logistic regression models.
Retrospective review of 2207 patients with Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Summary Stage I, II or III (local or regional disease) patients eligible for surgery, nonsmall cell lung cancer diagnosed and treated in WV between 1993 and 2000, which underwent surgery as a first course of treatment. Data set obtained from the West Virginia Cancer Registry.
The clinical presentation, diagnostic workup, treatment and clinical course of HCC is described for both patients. Relevant family history is discussed. This is followed by a review of literature regarding genetic basis of familial and sporadic HCC.
Three experimental groups were used. Group one was obturated with GP using lateral condensation, group two with GP using vertical condensation and group three using GuttaFlow and a single GP cone. Bacterial micro-leakage was tested using the two-chamber method, followed by dye penetration testing. Data was subjected to statistical analysis using the Chi Square test.
Two main groups of PMMA resin, 1 unreinforced and 1 reinforced with glass fibre, had 3 subgroups (n=21) each representing a different P/L ratio. The manufacturer's recommended ratio served as control. The specimens were prepared for a 3-point bending test. Using a universal testing machine, maximum force was recorded and the FS was calculated. Median FS values were compared by means of non-parametric analysis of variance (Kruskal-Wallis). A p-value of less than 0.05 was considered significant.
We analyzed survey data collected at baseline from 855 women (&gt;40 years old) in women's health clinics, who were recruited for a risk-tailored intervention. Screening practices, health behaviors, and demographics were surveyed. Statistical analyses were performed using bivariate difference tests and multiple logistic regression.
A review of the recent literature on the subject of CVD in women over the past several years was conducted with a focus on CVD in African American women. Statistical data on incidence, prevalence, morbidity and mortality of CAD, hypertension, stroke, and CHF in black and white women were compared.
A cross-sectional design was used. The sample consisted of 1049 women aged 18 or older, of whom 37.94% reported never having been screened for cervical cancer, 23.55% reported noncompliance, and 38.51% were in compliance with screening guidelines. The sample was comprised of Chinese, 50.58%; Koreans, 17.50%; Vietnamese, 16.15%; and Cambodians, 15.77%.
A total of 257 patients were enrolled in the randomized study, with a loss-to-follow-up rate of 9.73%. Patients were assigned randomly to either the control (unmonitored) group (n=116), consisting of conventional prenatal dietary management, or to the study (monitored) group (n=116), which was prescribed a balanced nutritional regimen and were asked to record in a diary all of the foods eaten during each day. Women were eligible for the study if they were pregnant with a single fetus between 12 and 28 weeks of gestation and had a prepregnancy body mass index of more than 30 kg/m2. The primary outcome was to compare perinatal outcomes in the control vs the study groups. The secondary measure was to compare outcomes in adherent and nonadherent patients in the study group.
A review of all cases of cesarean section that were done in the maternity unit at Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital, Sokoto, Nigeria, between January 2006 and April 2007, with emphasis on indications and perinatal outcome.
We conducted analysis on the Missouri maternally linked data files covering the period 1989-1997 inclusive. Using body mass index (BMI), we categorized mothers as underweight (BMI &lt;18.5) and normal weight (BMI = 18.5-24.9). By applying logistic regression modeling with adjustment for intracluster correlation, we estimated the risk for total, early (-28 weeks of gestation), and late stillbirth (&gt;28 weeks of gestation) among black and white mothers.
African American women aged 19 to 65, attending community outreach activities sponsored by a multispecialty academic medical center in northeastern Ohio, completed a calcium supplement survey. Survey items included demographic and bone health-related information, and rationale for calcium supplement use or nonuse.
Case files of patients managed for genital tract fistula over a 10-year period (January 1, 1997 to December 31, 2006) were retrieved and analyzed.
Focus groups (n=3) were led by a trained African American moderator of African American patients with hypertension (n=26) who receive their care from a large primary care network. Discussions were transcribed verbatim. Information was displayed in a data matrix and analyzed for emerging themes. Descriptive statistics were used to enhance the content validity of lifestyle modification efforts planned as part of this ongoing research.
A 17-year-old girl presented with a large asymptomatic pelvic mass, which was clinically suspected to be a leiomyoma. An initial sonographic study was questionable for a myoma but was confirmed on subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A large myoma was noted and removed at surgery. The patient subsequently became pregnant and delivered at term by caesarean section.
We conducted a simulation skills lab for neonatal chest tube placement using a fryer chicken model. Thirty incoming pediatric interns were prospectively queried on comfort levels of inserting chest tubes prior to and following the simulation lab.
A nonrandomized, within-subject design was implemented to investigate vowel and consonant recognition and fricative articulation of school-age children utilizing this feature.
Ten children, aged 6 years and 3 months, to 13 years and 6 months from a special education school district participated in this study. Individual hearing thresholds ranged from normal to moderate in the low frequencies and from severe to profound in the high frequencies. Average language age of children was within 2.2 years of chronological age.
Phoneme recognition and fricative articulation performance were compared for three conditions: (1) with the children's own hearing aids, (2) with an advanced hearing instrument utilizing LFT, and (3) with the same instrument without LFT. Nonsense syllable materials were administered at 30 and 50 dB HL input levels. Fricative articulation was measured by analyzing speech samples of conversational speech and oral reading passages. Repeated measures general linear model was utilized to determine the significance of any noted effects.
Prospective case study.
A young (26-year-old) female adult with a longstanding, bilateral, essentially moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss presented with robust distortion product otoacoustic emissions.
In this retrospective review, we compared performance on the FST with and without a head shaking component to electronystagmography (ENG) caloric irrigation unilateral weakness results.
We studied these factors in 736 chronic dizzy patients.
In a retrospective design, a total of 151 patients (80% response rate) responded to a postal questionnaire, and of these, 111 (74%) reported that they currently experienced tinnitus and were asked to complete the full questionnaire. Sampling was performed at a point of a mean 2.9 years postsurgery (SD = 1.8 years). Three established self-report questionnaires were included measuring tinnitus handicap (Tinnitus Handicap Inventory [THI]), hearing problems (Gothenburg Profile), and finally, a measure of anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale). We analyzed the data by means of Pearson product moment correlations, t-tests, ANOVAs, and chi-square.
Sixty new hearing aid users were fitted binaurally with Beltone Oria behind-the-ear digital hearing aids. Forty participants received prefitting counseling and demonstration of listening situations with the Beltone AVE (Audio Verification Environment) system; 20 received prefitting counseling without a demonstration of listening situations. Hearing aid expectations were measured at initial contact and following prefitting counseling. Reported hearing aid outcome was measured after eight to ten weeks of hearing aid use.
Sixty new hearing aid users aged between 55 and 81 years with symmetrical sensorineural hearing loss.
Participants were randomly assigned to one of three experimental groups, between which the prefitting counseling and follow-up differed: Group 1 received prefitting counseling in combination with demonstration of listening situations. Additionally, if the participant had complaints about sound quality at the follow-up visit, the hearing aids were fine-tuned using the Beltone AVE system. Group 2 received prefitting counseling in combination with demonstration of listening situations with the Beltone AVE system, but no fine-tuning was provided at follow-up. Group 3 received prefitting hearing aid counseling that did not include demonstration of listening, and the hearing aids were not fine-tuned at the follow-up appointment.
In total, 112 patients of the Occupational Diseases Outpatient Clinic and the Occupational and Environmental Allergy Centre of the Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine (NIOM) were examined. The General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) was used to assess the patients' mental health; a Polish version of the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) was employed to assess life quality; and the Self-Acceptance Scale (SAS) served to obtain the patients' self-image. Results showed that there were statistically significant differences in self-assessment of mental health and quality of life depending on ones's level of self-acceptance. People with high self-acceptance are characterized by better mental health than those with low self-acceptance (t = 4.8; p = 0.00). Patients with a negative selfimage (compared to those with a positive self-image) also deem their quality of life to be poor (t = 3.1; p = 0.00). Results of regression analysis show that mental health status significantly affects the quality of life in dermatology patients; the standardized coefficient was beta = 0.42 (p &lt; 0.0001).
A random observational prospective study of the incidences of lymphangitis and erysipelas was performed for 66 patients with arm lymphedema after breast-cancer treatment. The study was carried out between March 2006 and December 2007 at the Godoy Clinic in Sãoo José do Rio Preto, Brazil. The clinical evaluation of the participants was performed weekly before the start of treatment, with patients being required to immediately report any complications to the attending service.
We reviewed accredited public health schools and programs to assess the supply of required and elective courses in law and ethics. In addition, we conducted an Internet-based scenario survey of MPH graduates. Survey results were analyzed, and relationships between scenario responses and completion of law and ethics courses were assessed.
We used a quasi-experimental design with quarterly measures of mortality from 1976 though 2004, and we included other states for comparison. Our statistical approach combined an autoregressive integrated moving average model with structural parameters in interrupted time-series models.
Our data were drawn from the 2001-2002 National Epidemiological Survey of Alcoholism and Related Conditions, a nationally representative sample of US adults 18 years and older.
We performed a nonresponse simulation in a survey of 498 low-income women who received cash aid in a California county. Our simulation was based on a previously published analysis that found that women without children who applied for General Assistance experienced more violence than did women with children who applied for Temporary Assistance to Needy Families. We compared hard-to-reach respondents whom we reinterviewed only after extended follow-up effort 12 months after baseline with other respondents. We then removed these hard-to-reach respondents from our analysis.
Drug susceptibility testing for isoniazid and rifampin was prospectively done on all children with culture-confirmed TB at Tygerberg Children's Hospital, Cape Town, from March 2005 through February 2007. Survey results were compared with results from 2 previous surveys.
Between September 12 and October 21, 2005, we conducted a real-time qualitative assessment of a medical unit in Chicago's Hurricane Victim Welcome and Relief Center. A semistructured guide was used to interview 33 emergency responders in an effort to identify key operational successes and failures.
We described states' political economies with 6 contextual variables measuring social and political conditions: "right-to-work" laws, union membership density, labor grievance rates, state government debt, unemployment rates, and social wage payments. We obtained data on fatal occupational injuries from the National Traumatic Occupational Fatality surveillance system and population data from the US national census. We used Poisson regression methods to analyze relationships for the years 1980 and 1995.
We used situation analysis methods and a global workspace theoretical framework to conduct comparative case studies of 3 research organizations at 1 medical center.
We analyzed data from the High/Scope Perry Preschool Program (PPP), an early school-based intervention in which 123 children were randomized to a prekindergarten education group or a control group. In addition to exploring the effects of the program on health behavioral risk factors and health outcomes, we examined the extent to which educational attainment, income, family environment, and health insurance access mediated the relationship between randomization to PPP and behavioral and health outcomes.
We used a population-based, cross-sectional survey of 5147 fifth-grade students in 3 US cities to analyze parent-reported measures of family homelessness, child health status, health care access and use, and emotional, developmental, and behavioral health and child-reported measures of health-related quality of life and exposure to violence.
I measured respirable suspended particles (RSPs), particulate polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PPAHs), and carbon dioxide inside and outside casinos; measured changes in patrons' urine cotinine after casino visits; and assessed SHS impact on workers and patrons, using exposure-response models, air quality standards, and odor and irritation thresholds.
We used a matched-pair, cluster-randomized, controlled design, with 10 intervention schools and 10 control schools. Fifth-graders (N = 1714) self-reported on lifetime substance use, violence, and voluntary sexual activity. Teachers of participant students reported on student (N = 1225) substance use and violence.
Housing and psychosocial outcomes in a sample of 265 adolescents who left the foster care system in 2002 and 2003 in a large midwestern metropolitan area were evaluated over a 2-year follow-up period. Analyses focused on identifying latent housing trajectory categories across the first 2 years after participants' exit from foster care.
Study participants (n = 7391) belonged to the French GAZEL cohort of employees of the national gas and electricity company. Sickness absence data (1996-1999) were obtained from company records. Participants' depression in 1996 and 1999 was assessed with the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression (CES-D) scale. The analyses were controlled for baseline age, gender, marital status, occupational grade, tobacco smoking status, alcohol consumption, subthreshold depressive symptoms, and work stress.
Injection drug users in Tijuana were recruited into a prospective cohort study during 2006 and 2007. We used weighted multivariate logistic regression to identify correlates of TB diagnoses.
We used multivariate logistic regression to assess associations between patterns of housing instability and recent jail stays among a reproducible sample of 1175 marginally housed adults in San Francisco, California.
The US State Department conducted the survey by interviewing a randomized multistage probability sample of 1136 Darfur refugees at 20 sites in Chad in 2004. For a subset of 932 respondents who had fled from village clusters that accounted for 15 or more respondents per cluster, we used hierarchical linear models to analyze village-level patterns of reported sexual violence. We statistically controlled for individual sexual victimization to remove bias.
We assessed 15- to 24-year-old workers (n = 14 379) from cycle 2.1 of the Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS). We gathered data on demographic characteristics, work-related factors, and presence of learning disabilities or ADHD. We conducted a multivariate logistic regression analysis to assess occurrences of medically attended work injuries.
Pregnant women (N = 8266) participating in the Amsterdam Born Children and Their Development study completed a questionnaire gathering information on employment and working conditions. After exclusions, 7135 women remained in our analyses. Low birthweight and delivery of a small-for-gestational-age (SGA) infant were the main outcome measures.
We used noise dosimetry to measure time-integrated noise levels in a representative sample of New York City mass transit systems (subways, buses, ferries, tramway, and commuter railways) aboard transit vehicles and at vehicle boarding platforms or terminals during June and July 2007.
Sensitivities of P. falciparum to antimalarial drug (chloroquine, mefloquine, quinine and artesunate) were investigated based on the incorporation of [3H] hypoxanthine into parasite nucleic acids or radioisotopic technique. The number of parasites was examined under microscope following Giemsa staining and the parasite development at the end of each phase was counted and comparison of parasite number was made. The proteome was separated, blotted and hybridized with anti-Hsp70s primary antibody. The hybridized proteins were separately digested with trypsin and identified by MALDI-TOF peptide mass fingerprint.
The compound was isolated and characterized from the extracted essential oil using different spectral techniques: TLC, FTIR spectra and HPLC. Antimicrobial activity of the compound was assessed using both disc diffusion and microdilution method in 96 multi-well microtiter plates.
A total of 400 K pneumoniae samples were isolated from two hospitals in Riyadh during 2007 and screened for production of ESBL using ESBL-E-strips and combined disk methods. PCR assay was used to detect bla(TEM), bla(SHV), and bla(CTX-M) genes.
In a cross sectional survey of 30 randomly selected villages, 72 tuberculosis patients were traced and their 317 contacts (148 were children) investigated using a questionnaire, a tuberculin skin tests (positive: &gt; = 10 mm), a 3-day sputum examination for acid-fast bacilli (AFB), and chest radiography.
Sequencing was performed on tcdC, tcdR, and tcdE to determine if there were differences that might account for hyper-production of Toxin A and Toxin B in NAP1-related strains. Biological activity of Toxin B was evaluated using the HFF cell CPE assay and Toxin A biological activity was assessed using the Caco-2 Trans-membrane resistance assay.
Data from each sitting of the MCQ section of the primary FRCA examination from June 1999 to May 2008 were analysed for performance by medical school and gender.
The Modified Impact Index (MII) was defined as the ratio of the observed h-index (h) of an institution over the h-index anticipated for that institution on average, given the number of publications (N) it produces i.e. MII = h/10alphaNbeta (alpha and beta denote the intercept and the slope, respectively, of the line describing the dependence of the h-index on the number of publications in log10 scale). MII values higher than 1 indicate that an institution performs better than the average, in terms of its h-index. Data on scientific papers published during 2002-2006 and within 36 medical fields for 219 Academic Medical Institutions from 16 European countries were used to estimate alpha and beta and to calculate the MII of their total and field-specific production.
A randomised placebo-controlled clinical trial with a 2 x 2 factorial design will evaluate the clinical efficacy, cost-effectiveness and recurrence rates of adding physiotherapy to an injection. In addition, the clinical efficacy and adverse effects of corticosteroid injection beyond that of a placebo saline injection will be studied. 132 participants with a diagnosis of lateral epicondylalgia will be randomly assigned by concealed allocation to one of four treatment groups - corticosteroid injection, saline injection, corticosteroid injection with physiotherapy or saline injection with physiotherapy. Physiotherapy will comprise 8 sessions of elbow manipulation and exercise over an 8 week period. Blinded follow-up assessments will be conducted at baseline, 4, 8, 12, 26 and 52 weeks after randomisation. The primary outcome will be a participant rating of global improvement, from which measures of success and recurrence will be derived. Analyses will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis using linear mixed and logistic regression models. Healthcare costs will be collected from a societal perspective, and along with willingness-to-pay and quality of life data will facilitate cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses.
In 118 consecutive selected patients with the first-ever ischemic stroke within 6 hours after onset, fifty of them presented with PMH or hemiplegia and had negative acute computed tomography (CT) scans, then magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the corresponding infarcts in pons or cerebrum. The clinical and neuroimaging features of the pontine infarctions were compared with those of cerebral infarctions.
Observational longitudinal study.
Kaiser Permanente Hawaii, with more than 10,000 members with documented chronic kidney disease.
Rate of late referrals to nephrology care, defined as occurring within four months of end stage renal disease and the proportions of patients starting haemodialysis with a mature arteriovenous fistula and starting dialysis in the outpatient setting.
Risk stratification of the entire population and unsolicited consultations provided by nephrologists to generalists, based on patients' risk level, enabled by an electronic population management database.
In order to address this question the present study aimed at investigating the auditory N100 component elicited during a WM test in 38 dyslexic children in comparison to those of 19 unaffected sibling controls. Both groups met the criteria of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10). ERP were evoked by two stimuli, a low (500 Hz) and a high (3000 Hz) frequency tone indicating forward and reverse digit span respectively.
Patients with vitiligo were included in a nationwide German postal survey. WTP was assessed by two standardized items, and QoL was evaluated using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) and the EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaire. QoL data were compared with n = 1,511 patients from a national survey on psoriasis.
Patients received ECP with the THERAKOS CELLEX system for up to 6 months. The treatment schedule was defined by their current treatment and response to ECP. At least 150 treatments were required to assess safety of the new system. Safety was assessed using reports of adverse device effects (ADEs) and unanticipated ADEs (UADEs), device malfunctions and defects, vital signs, laboratory parameters and physical examinations.
Demographic data, medical information and psychological factors (perceived severity, trait anxiety, trait depression, trait self-esteem, body image and QoL) were prospectively collected for all patients.
Nine patients with BL acquired in France and for whom skin samples were sent to the national reference centre laboratory between 1994 and 2007 were included in this retrospective study. Direct detection of Borrelia in skin samples was made by polymerase chain reaction targeting the fla gene. Culture was performed when technically possible, and identification of each species was made by hybridization of a fragment of the fla gene with a panel of species-specific oligonucleotides.
Twelve patients with Bowen's disease (eight) and superficial basal cell carcinoma (four) &lt; 2 cm in diameter were recruited into the study following histological confirmation of the diagnosis. Two treatments (45-60 J cm(-2) red light, 550-750 nm, peak 620 nm, irradiance 5 mW cm(-2)) were administered 1 month apart following application of aminolaevulinic acid for 4 h.
Twenty patients with AE, four patients with other eczema and 10 healthy subjects were included. Severity of AE was graded using SCORing of atopic dermatitis (SCORAD). Skin biopsies were taken from lesional and nonlesional skin from all patients and from skin of healthy controls. The levels of LL-37 mRNA were analysed by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Evaluation of dermal and epidermal protein expression of LL-37 and the degree of inflammation was performed by immunohistochemical stainings.
Ex vivo human skin specimens obtained from six patients aged from 10 to 50 years old who were undergoing skin plastic surgery were examined. Five patients had hypertrophic scar lesions and one patient had no scar lesion before we obtained his skin specimen. A total of 30 tissue section samples of 30 mum thickness were analysed by the use of a nonlinear spectral imaging system consisting of a femtosecond excitation light source, a high-throughput scanning inverted microscope, and a spectral imaging detection system. The high-contrast and high-resolution second harmonic generation (SHG) images of collagen and two-photon excited fluorescence (TPEF) images of elastin fibres in hypertrophic scar tissues and normal skin were acquired using the extracting channel tool of the system. The emission spectra were analysed using the image-guided spectral analysis method. The depth-dependent decay constant of the SHG signal and the image texture characteristics of hypertrophic scar tissue and normal skin were used to quantitatively assess the amount, distribution and orientation of their collagen and elastin components.
Cryosections from fresh or organ-cultured full-thickness normal human scalp skin treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), flagellin, protein A, lipoteichoic acid (LTA) or IFN-gamma were stained for psoriasin and RNase 7 immunoreactivity (IR) as well as for TLR4 and TLR5. In addition, outer root sheath cell culture and semiquantitative analysis of mRNA expression levels of RNase 7 and psoriasin were performed.
An immunohistochemical study on the expression of TRAF1, MUM1, BCL2 and CD15 was performed on skin biopsies from 28 patients with C-ALCL, 39 patients with LyP, 11 patients with CD30-positive MF-TR, two with ALK-positive ALCL and six with ALK-negative ALCL. In addition, the prognostic significance of these markers was evaluated.
We undertook a case-control study to investigate the association of MBL2 gene exon 1 polymorphisms - codon 52, codon 54 and codon 57 as well as promoter -221 polymorphism in 92 patients with generalized vitiligo and 94 unaffected age-matched controls by polymerase chain reaction-heteroduplex analysis.
A set of 253 images of caucasian women's faces was evaluated independently by four dermatologists using four different skin ageing severity scales: Larnier's overall photodamage, expression lines, glabellar frown lines, and wrinkles under the eyes. For each pair of dermatologists, degree of agreement was estimated using the weighted kappa statistic and degrees of distinguishability between adjacent categories along these scales were estimated using a recently developed log-linear method.
One hundred and twenty-one paraffin-embedded skin tumours (27 actinic keratosis, 41 intraepidermal carcinoma, 53 squamous cell carcinoma) and 11 normal skin samples were analysed for the presence of betaPV by a polymerase chain reaction-reverse hybridization assay designed to detect the presence of the 25 known betaPV genotypes.
Six subjects with H skin, six AD patients with NL skin and six AD patients with mild to moderate eczema (L skin) were enrolled. Skin was assessed using several noninvasive techniques but SC thickness was estimated using tewametry and SC protein content of D-Squame strippings. SC integrity was determined by sequential tape stripping (D-Squame) and infrared densitometry. Kallikreins, plasmin, urokinase and leucocyte elastase protease activities together with a novel SC tryptase-like enzyme activity were quantified.
We reviewed the files of all 90 patients with primary CBCL who attended the Department of Dermatology of our tertiary care university-affiliated centre from 1992 to 2007.
This 8-week, multicentre, randomized, investigator-blind, parallel-group study compared two-compound calcipotriol/betamethasone scalp formulation with calcipotriol scalp solution in patients with moderately severe scalp psoriasis. Primary efficacy outcome was the proportion of patients who achieved 'clear' or 'minimal' disease severity according to investigator's global assessment of disease severity at week 8. Secondary efficacy outcomes and adverse events were also evaluated. Relapse and rebound were assessed in an 8-week, post-treatment observation phase.
We reviewed the files of patients with malignant lymphoma seen in our dermatology department between January 2001 and May 2006 to search for patients with ichthyosiform eruptions.
A questionnaire was circulated in autumn 2006 to all U.K. dermatology specialist registrars (SpRs) registered as members of the British Association of Dermatologists (n = 269).
Patients (n = 15) with a history of contact allergy to nickel were subjected to three consecutive patch tests at 3-month intervals, utilizing NiSO4 at 10 concentrations ranging from 0.0032% to 12.5%. Prior to each patch test, blood mononuclear cells were analysed for T-cell reactivity to nickel by interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 enzyme-linked immunospot assay.
The medical records of 57 patients with MCC treated between 1988 and 2006 at the Department of Dermatology in Tübingen were reviewed.
In this cross-sectional study, the hands and feet of 1465 children aged 4-12 years from four Dutch primary schools were examined for the presence of warts. In addition, the children's parents completed a questionnaire about possible environmental risk factors for warts.
In 1990, 1998 and 2006, 4299 individuals aged 18-69 years (18-41 years only in 1998) completed a premailed questionnaire and were patch tested to FM I and MP. Data were analysed by logistic regression analyses and associations were expressed as odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
Reports for all new skin tumour specimens processed by our histopathology department over a continuous 3-month period were reviewed retrospectively.
Melanoma cells were exposed to 300 U mL(-1) TNF-alpha for a 24-h period prior to making a scratch wound to which ibuprofen or ibuprofen-loaded hydrogels were then added. The effects of relevant concentrations of ibuprofen on cell viability and apoptosis were examined.
Online research and telephone interviews with each cancer center were used to gather information, including: organizational structure, the presence of a clinical program, the number of faculty members, and the number of Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigators. Statistical tests were used to assess the impact which organizational structure has on the amount of funding per faculty member and number of HHMI investigators.
In the present study, we transfected Wistar rat osteosarcoma cells derived total RNA to SD rat bone marrow-derived DCs through electroporation. The tumor vaccine was applied to in tumor-bearing rats model and the specific antitumor effects of the tumor vaccine were observed. Then CTL activity was evaluated one week after the first immunization of SD rats with electroporated DCs and the specificity of the cytotoxic activity was confirmed in cold target inhibition assays and using mAbs blocking MHC class I or CD8 molecules.
We analyzed sequential clinical nasopharyngeal samples, obtained before and after tiered weight-based oseltamivir therapy, from children with acute influenza during 2005-2007. We isolated viruses, tested for drug resistance with use of a fluorescence-based neuraminidase inhibition assay, performed neuraminidase gene sequencing, and determined quantitative viral loads.
We performed a case-control study nested in a prospective cohort of patients (n = 10,044) initiating incident hemodialysis. Case patients (n = 81) were those who died of an infectious disease within 1 year; control patients (n = 198) were those who survived at least 1 year while undergoing dialysis.
Fifty patients with CDI were randomized to receive vancomycin or nitazoxanide for 10 days. An initial response was considered to be the absence of all CDI symptoms between days 11 and 13, and a final response was considered to be lack of symptom recurrence by day 31.
We performed a systematic review of relevant epidemiologic studies conducted during the period 1984-2007 after abstracting data from articles that met our inclusion criteria. Study quality was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa scale. With use of the random effects model, we calculated the summary odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for H. pylori infection according to history of breast-feeding.
An observational epidemiologic study was conducted in Johannesburg, South Africa. Initial and sustained virologic response to NNRTI-based therapy was compared between 94 HIV-infected women who had received sdNVP 18-36 months earlier and 60 unexposed, HIV-infected women who had been pregnant 12-36 months earlier. Viral load was measured every 4 weeks up to week 24 and then every 12 weeks up to week 78. Time to viral suppression (viral load, &lt;50 copies/mL) and confirmed rebound in the viral load (viral load, &gt;400 copies/mL) were compared. Drug resistance was assessed using K103N allele-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction assay and population sequencing.
We examined the prevalence of rifampin resistance among 470 C. difficile isolates (51.1% during 2001-2002 and 48.9% during 2005) from a large teaching hospital. Rifampin sensitivity was performed using E-test. The epidemic BI/NAP1 C. difficile clone was identified by tcdC genotyping and multilocus variable number of tandem repeats analysis. A 200-base pair fragment of the rpoB gene was sequenced for 102 isolates. Data on rifamycin exposures were obtained for all patients.
We analyzed 2102 episodes of CAP in consecutively hospitalized patients over a 7-year period. The predictive rule consists of at least 1 of 2 major severity criteria (septic shock and invasive mechanical ventilation) or at least 3 of 9 minor severity criteria. We assessed the association of the predictive rule with ICU admission and mortality.
Twenty-three patients were studied as part of an ongoing prospective longitudinal cohort study of ARV therapy for HIV-2 infection in Senegal. Patients were treated with nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI)- and PI (indinavir)-based regimens. HIV-2 pol genes from these patients were genotyped, and the mutations predictive of resistance in HIV-2 were assessed. Correlates of ARV resistance were analyzed.
Children (age, 6 months to 15 years) who had been hospitalized with acute febrile encephalopathy (a &lt; or =2-week history of fever plus altered sensorium) were tested for the presence of immunoglobulin M antibodies to Japanese encephalitis virus with commercial immunoglobulin M capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Children with positive results were randomized to receive either ribavirin (10 mg/kg per day in 4 divided doses for 7 days) or placebo syrup through nasogastric tube or by mouth. The primary outcome was early mortality; secondary outcome measures were early (at hospital discharge; normal or nearly normal, independent functioning, dependent, vegetative state, or death) outcome, time to resolution of fever, time to resumption of oral feeding, duration of hospitalization, and late outcome (&gt; or =3 months after hospital discharge). The study was double-blind, and analysis was by intention to treat.
One hundred two donor-recipient orthotopic liver transplantation pairs were studied. Five polymorphisms in the promoter and coding regions of MBL2 were examined. MBL levels were measured, using the mannan-binding and C4-deposition assays, in serum samples obtained before and after transplantation. Associations between MBL status, as assessed by serum MBL levels and MBL2 genotype, and time to first clinically significant infection (CSI) after transplantation were examined in survival analysis with consideration of competing risks.
We compared the distribution of one class of mobile elements--integrons and gene cassettes--among uropathogenic Escherichia coli isolates, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium isolates from human diarrhea cases, and E. coli and Salmonella isolates from nonhuman sources in the United States. The sequences of the gene cassettes were also compared with those deposited in GenBank.
Public Health-Seattle &amp; King County offered HIV antibody testing to men who have sex with men (MSM) using the OraQuick Advance Rapid HIV-1/2 Antibody Test (OraQuick; OraSure Technologies) on oral fluid or finger-stick blood specimens or using a first- or second-generation enzyme immunoassay. The enzyme immunoassay was also used to confirm reactive rapid test results and to screen specimens from OraQuick-negative MSM prior to pooling for HIV NAAT. Serum specimens obtained from subsets of HIV-infected persons were retrospectively evaluated by use of other HIV tests, including a fourth-generation antigen-antibody combination assay.
This was a retrospective inception cohort study of outpatients with a new prescription for gatifloxacin, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, or azithromycin from 1 October 2000 through 30 September 2005 in the Veterans Affairs health care system. For patients who received one of these antibiotics, we identified outcomes of hospitalization with a primary diagnosis of hypo- or hyperglycemia. Multivariable logistic regression was used to determine the odds of hypo- and hyperglycemia with the individual fluoroquinolones versus azithromycin.
We examined 3068 consecutive children admitted to a Kenyan district hospital with clinical features of severe malaria and 592 control subjects from the community. We performed multivariable regression analysis, with each case weighted for its probability of being due to falciparum malaria, using estimates of the fraction of severe disease attributable to malaria at different parasite densities derived from cross-sectional parasitological surveys of healthy children from the same community.
Sentinel sites included a metropolitan health maintenance organization laboratory and a hospital laboratory serving a small city and rural area. We received sorbitol-MacConkey agar plates from every stool culture performed at both sites during 2000-2006. Colony sweeps were screened for stx1 and stx2 by polymerase chain reaction. E. coli identity, serotype, and presence of stx1 and/or stx2 were confirmed on individual isolates.
We systematically reviewed literature on complicated SSSI published during 1900-1950 (before widespread penicillin resistance) to define treatment outcomes and confidence intervals (CIs). Antimicrobial efficacy was calculated as the lower limit CI of the cure rate with antimicrobials minus the upper limit CI of the cure rate without antimicrobials.
Derivation and internal validation cohorts were obtained by retrospective analysis of a database that included 3116 consecutive patients with community-acquired pneumonia from 2 university hospitals. Potential predictive factors were determined by means of a multivariate logistic regression equation applied to a cohort consisting of 60% of the patients. Points were assigned to significant parameters to generate the score. It was then internally validated with the remaining 40% of patients and was externally validated using an independent multicenter cohort of 1369 patients.
To determine cause of death, a postmortem examination was conducted, and friends and colleagues were interviewed. Physical evidence was reviewed, including specimens from the mountain lion and the biologist's medical chart, camera, and computer. Human and animal tissues were submitted for testing. Persons in close contact (within 2 meters) to the biologist after he had developed symptoms were identified and offered chemoprophylaxis.
All adult patients with persistent MRSA bacteremia for 7 days from January 2006 through March 2008 who were treated at Seoul National University Hospital were studied. The results of linezolid salvage therapy with or without carbapenem were compared with those of salvage therapy with vancomycin plus aminoglycosides or rifampicin.
Adult patients in western Kenya had their viral loads (VLs) determined if they had adhered to first-line therapy for &gt;6 months and were suspected of experiencing immunological failure (ie, their CD4 cell count decreased by 25% in 6 months). Misclassification of treatment failure was defined as a 25% decrease in CD4 cell count with a VL of &lt;400 copies/mL. Logistic and tree regressions examined relationships between VL and 4 variables: CD4 T cell count (hereafter CD4 cell count), percentage of T cells expressing CD4 (hereafter CD4 cell percentage), percentage decrease in the CD4 T cell count (hereafter CD4 cell count percent decrease), and percentage decrease in the percentage of T cells expressing CD4 (hereafter CD4% percent decrease).
In addition to longitudinal clinical parameters, virus-specific T cell responses were assessed using Elispot, standard proliferative (carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester), and in vitro CD4(+) T cell assays.
An index case involving a young female with an amebic liver abscess led to an epidemiological investigation of sexual contacts. Anti-amebic serological analysis, stool specimen examinations, and abdominal ultrasounds were done for the contacts. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was done for stool antigen specific to E. histolytica. Genotyping and phylogenetic analysis was performed on 1 stool isolate.
We conducted a prospective study in a French hospital. All pregnant women giving birth at the maternity ward were considered for inclusion, except those with planned cesarean delivery, with delivery at &lt;35 weeks gestation, and who received antibiotic therapy before admission. We performed GBS culture (the reference standard) and a molecular GBS test (Xpert GBS; Cepheid) on intrapartum specimens. Decisions about intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis were based on the current GBS screening by culture at 35-37 weeks gestation.
Contacts of the patients with GAS infection were screened using questionnaires and testing of pharyngeal specimens. Specimens from patients and carriers of GAS who were identified during screening were subjected to pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and emm gene typing.
The families of children from the United Kingdom who developed invasive Hib disease after prior immunization with Hib conjugate vaccine (i.e., Hib vaccine failure) from October 1992 through December 2005 were asked to complete a questionnaire. A blood sample was also obtained from each child.
Between November 2006 and January 2008 14 consecutive patients with typical muscarinic syndrome after mushroom ingestion were recorded. The clinical manifestations included combinations of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, hypersalivation, diaphoresis, tachycardia, bradycardia, hypotension, lacrimation, blurred vision, miosis, tremor, restlessness, flushing, and syncope. Time to onset of toxicity ranged between 15 min and 2 h after consumption, 5 h in one patient. Treatment was supportive, including intravenous fluids, antiemetics, and 1 mg atropine intravenously. Full recovery ensued within 12 h. In all the cases, an expert mycologist unequivocally identified the leftovers of the consumed mushrooms as Inocybe fastigiata, Inocybe geophylla, and Inocybe patouillardii.
Medical records of infants treated with clonidine for NAS from January 2003 to March 2006 were reviewed for gestational age, birth weight, NAS score, dose of clonidine, duration of treatment, and additional medications required.
Eighty male CF-1 mice were randomly assigned to olanzapine (1 mg/kg) or placebo pretreatment. Fifteen minutes later, all animals received 103 mg/kg intraperitoneal cocaine.
A literature review was conducted and commentary written on the impact of the change in the United Kingdom on a variety of indices of paracetamol overdose.
For this analysis, a two-step approach was used to analyze potential heroin-related calls. First, the data were analyzed retrospectively to identify whether any significant temporal shifts occurred, then a prospective analysis was conducted to simulate real-time surveillance.
A systematic review of Medline, PubMed, PsychInfo, and Google Scholar using the search terms "cannabis," "marijuana," "marihuana," "toxicity," "complications," and "mechanisms" identified 5,198 papers. This list was screened by hand, and papers describing mechanisms and those published in more recent years were chosen preferentially for inclusion in this review.
A summary of the literature on DEG was compiled by systematically searching OVID MEDLINE and ISI Web of Science. Further information was obtained from book chapters, relevant news reports, and web material.
Following ingestion, DEG is rapidly absorbed and distributed within the body, predominantly to regions that are well perfused. Metabolism occurs principally in the liver and both the parent and the metabolite, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), are renally eliminated rapidly.
The clinical effects of DEG poisoning can be divided into three stages: The first phase consists of gastrointestinal symptoms with evidence of inebriation and developing metabolic acidosis. If poisoning is pronounced, patients can progress to a second phase with more severe metabolic acidosis and evidence of emerging renal injury, which, in the absence of appropriate supportive care, can lead to death. If patients are stabilized, they may then enter the final phase with various delayed neuropathies and other neurological effects, sometimes fatal. TOXICITY OF DEG: Doses of DEG necessary to cause human morbidity and mortality are not well established. They are based predominantly on reports following some epidemics of mass poisonings, which may underestimate toxicity. The mean estimated fatal dose in an adult has been defined as approximately 1 mL/kg of pure DEG.
Eighteen structurally different oxime reactivators were tested for their in vitro ability to reactivate paraoxon-inhibited human erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase and human plasma butyrylcholinesterase to find out structure-activity relationship within this set of compounds. Their reactivation ability was compared with commercially available acetylcholinesterase reactivators (pralidoxime, methoxime, trimedoxime, obidoxime, and HI-6).
We reviewed the medical records of children and adolescents aged &lt;or= 18 years hospitalized with alcohol intoxication alone in the University Children's Hospital in Bratislava, Slovak Republic, during the years 1996-2005 and compared their characteristics between the first and the second 5-year time periods.
Urine samples were collected at emergency wards in Sweden from patients who either admitted or were suspected of ingestion of psychoactive plant materials. The bioanalytical investigation employed a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry multicomponent method covering 10 plant-derived substances (atropine, dimethyltryptamine, ephedrine, harmaline, harmine, ibogaine, lysergic acid amide, psilocin, scopolamine, and yohimbine) and a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method for asarone. Routine testing for illicit drugs was also performed.
All isolated acute aripiprazole exposures reported to a poison control system from January 2002 through September 2006 were retrospectively reviewed. Patients with incomplete information or those lost to follow-up were excluded.
An instrument was developed to assess the perceived need for communication training for specialists in poison information (SPIs) with input from focus groups and a panel of experts. Requests to respond to an online questionnaire were made to PCCs throughout the United States and Canada.
A 65-year-old lady presented to our hospital's accident and emergency department with recurrent syncope attacks. Electrocardiogram monitoring showed QT prolongation and transient Torsades de Pointes (TDP) ventricular tachycardia. She was taking anticancer naturopathic drugs for 6 weeks before admission. One of her naturopathic drugs was subsequently confirmed containing 89% CsCl by weight. Besides conventional treatment of QT prolongation and TDP, the patient was given a 4-week course of oral Prussian blue to enhance gastrointestinal elimination of cesium. The serum half-life of cesium was reduced from 61.7 to 29.4 days after the use of Prussian blue. QT prolongation was normalized in 27 days.
A male worker in an upholstery factory was confined in the tanning machine for 15 min. The device was used to contain sodium sulfate, sulfur dioxide, and sulfuric acid. On admission, he was confused with Glasgow coma scale score as 9. His vital signs were as follows: blood pressure, 80/58 mmHg; pulse rate, 114 bpm; respiratory rate, 30 bpm; temperature, 37.1 degrees C; and oxygen saturation, 48%. He was intubated. Physical examination disclosed extensive subcutaneous emphysema on the neck and pinkish foamy discharge from the mouth. Chest X-ray showed bilateral pneumothoraces and pneumomediastinum that warranted bilateral tube thoracostomy. Bronchoscopy demonstrated web-shaped hyperemic areas on the upper airway mucosa with aphtous lesions in the base. Extensive hemorrhage and edema were evident around epiglottis. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit and mechanically ventilated. He was discharged without any sequelae on day 8.
A 4-year-old girl was admitted 25 h after accidentally ingesting approximately 27 pills of sibutramine (15 mg, approximately 23 mg/kg). The child developed clinical features suggestive of SS, including diaphoresis, tachycardia, hypertension, agitation, insomnia, incoordination, hypertonia (lower limbs &gt;&gt; upper limbs), and hallucinations. Serum creatine phosphokinase levels reached a peak on day 3 (2,577 U/L, reference value &lt;145), suggesting mild rhabdomyolysis. No relevant changes were detected in other laboratory examinations or in the electrocardiogram throughout the period of hospitalization. The quantification of sibutramine and the active metabolites, M1 (mono-desmethyl sibutramine) and M2 (di-desmethyl sibutramine), by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry in six sequential samples collected from 25 to 147 h post-ingestion revealed a nonlinear decrease in the log-scale plasma concentrations. Treatment was only supportive and involved prolonged sedation to control the agitation, sleeplessness, and hypertension; no cyproheptadine was used. The patient was discharged on day 6 and follow-up revealed no sequelae.
A 48-year-old man had ingested three handfuls of Atropa belladonna. Within 6 h he experienced phases of disorientation, aggressiveness, and tachycardia. He was initially treated with diazepam, an intravenous infusion of physostigmine and activated charcoal. After temporary improvement his clinical condition worsened and he was transferred to our toxicological intensive care unit. Here, ongoing sedation and continuous administration of physostigmine was necessary because of disorientation. In the early phase of hospitalization, a blood sample was taken and a muscarinic receptor total binding equivalent to binding of 130 microg/L atropine was determined by a radio receptor technique. Within 2 days the patient recovered completely and was discharged in a good general condition.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register.
Randomised trials comparing active and expectant management of the third stage of labour in women who were expecting a vaginal delivery.
Trial quality was assessed and data were extracted independently by the reviewers.
We searched the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group Specialised Register (2000-2007), MEDLINE (1950-2007) and CINAHL (1982-2007). We also handsearched the Journal of Interprofessional Care (1999 to 2007) and reference lists of the five included studies.
Randomised controlled trials of practice-based IPC interventions that reported changes in objectively-measured or self-reported (by use of a validated instrument) patient/client outcomes and/or health status outcomes and/or healthcare process outcomes and/or measures of IPC.
At least two of the three reviewers independently assessed the eligibility of each potentially relevant study. One author extracted data from and assessed risk of bias of included studies, consulting with the other authors when necessary. A meta-analysis of study outcomes was not possible given the small number of included studies and their heterogeneity in relation to clinical settings, interventions and outcome measures. Consequently, we summarised the study data and presented the results in a narrative format.
Searches were made of the Oxford Database of Perinatal Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE, previous reviews including cross references, abstracts, conferences and symposia proceedings, expert informants, journal hand searching by the Cochrane Collaboration, mainly in the English language. The search was updated in January 2009.
Randomised controlled trials comparing HFOV and CV in preterm or low birth weight infants with pulmonary dysfunction, mainly due to RDS, who required assisted ventilation. Randomisation and commencement of treatment needed to be as soon as possible after the start of CV and usually in the first 12 hours of life.
The methodological quality of each trial was independently reviewed by the various authors. The standard effect measures are relative risk (RR) and risk difference (RD). From 1/RD the number needed to treat (NNT) to produce one outcome were calculated. For all measures of effect, 95% confidence intervals were used. In subgroup analyses the 99% CIs are also given for summary RRs in the text. Meta-analysis was performed using a fixed effects model. Where heterogeneity was over 50%, the random effects RR is also given.
The standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Group was used. Searches were made of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library, Issue 1, 2009), MEDLINE (1966 - February 2009), EMBASE (1980 - February 2009), CINAHL (1982 - February 2009), conference proceedings, and previous reviews.
Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials that assessed the effects of early trophic feeding (milk volumes up to 24 ml/kg/day introduced before 96 hours postnatal age and continued until at least one week after birth) versus a comparable period of enteral fasting in VLBW infants.
The standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Group were used, with separate evaluation of trial quality and data extraction by two review authors. Data were synthesised using a fixed effects model and reported using typical relative risk, typical risk difference and weighted mean difference.
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (December 2008), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 4), MEDLINE (1966 to November week 3 2008), EMBASE (1981 to week 52 2008), CINAHL (1982 to December week 2 2008), various trial registers, various conference proceedings and bibliographies of relevant articles.
Randomised or quasi-randomised trials of conservative and surgical treatment of isolated fractures of the ulnar shaft in adults. Excluded were fractures of the proximal ulna and Monteggia fracture dislocations.
We performed independent assessment of risk of bias and data extraction. We contacted trialists for more information. There was no pooling of data.
We searched the Cochrane Breast Cancer Group Specialised Register (January 2008), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 1), MEDLINE (February 2008), and EMBASE (February 2008). Reference lists of articles and handsearching of ASCO (2007), ESMO (2002 to 2007), and St Gallen (2005 to 2007) conferences were performed.
RCTs of breast conserving surgery with and without radiotherapy in women at first diagnosis of pure ductal carcinoma in situ (no invasive disease present).
Two authors independently assessed each potentially eligible trial for inclusion and its quality. Two authors also independently extracted data from published Kaplan-Meier analysis (survival curves) and reported summary statistics. Data were extracted and pooled for four trials. Data for planned subgroups were extracted and pooled for analysis.There were insufficient data to pool for long-term toxicity from radiotherapy.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and reference lists of articles. The most recent searches were conducted in January 2009.
Randomized controlled trials comparing administration of corticosteroids by any route with placebo in infants, children, or adults receiving mechanical ventilation via an endotracheal tube in an intensive care unit.
Three review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (June 2008), the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group's Trials Register (June 2008), EMBASE, PsycLIT, and CINAHL (all from January 2003 to June 2008). We contacted trial authors to locate additional unpublished data.
Randomised controlled trials where smoking cessation during pregnancy was a primary aim of the intervention.
Trials were identified and data extracted by one person and checked by a second. Subgroup analysis was conducted to assess the effect of risk of trial bias, intensity of the intervention and main intervention strategy used.
We searched the Cochrane EPOC Group Trials register, MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL and CENTRAL to July 2008, and scanned bibliographies from key articles.
Studies of a reminder delivered via a computer system routinely used by clinicians, with a randomised or quasi-randomised design and reporting at least one outcome involving a clinical endpoint or adherence to a recommended process of care.
Two authors independently screened studies for eligibility and abstracted data. For each study, we calculated the median improvement in adherence to target processes of care and also identified the outcome with the largest such improvement. We then calculated the median absolute improvement in process adherence across all studies using both the median outcome from each study and the best outcome.
The sources used were: EMBASE, LILACS, MEDLINE, SCISEARCH, The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, bibliographies of published papers, and personal communication with authors. There were no language or date restrictions in any of the searches.
All randomised clinical trials in which antibiotics were used as prophylactic regimen for leptospirosis.
People potentially exposed to leptospirosis, such as people in endemic areas during the rainy season, health professionals and other professionals with high risk of infection.
Any antibiotic regimen compared with a control group (placebo or another antibiotic regimen).
Data were independently extracted and methodological quality of each trial was assessed by two reviewers as well as cross-checked. Details of the randomisation (generation and concealment), blinding, and the number of patients lost to follow-up were recorded. The results of each trial were summarised on an intention-to-treat basis in 2 x 2 tables for each outcome.
We searched MEDLINE (Ovid) (1966 to July 2006); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library; 2006, Issue 2); CINAHL (Ovid) (1982 to July 2006); EMBASE (Ovid) (1980 to July 2006); and PsycINFO (Ovid) (1806 to July 2006). We contacted researchers active in the field up to December 2006. There were no language restrictions.
We included published RCTs of interventions designed to aid patients' decision making by providing information about treatment or screening options and their associated outcomes, compared to no intervention, usual care, and alternate interventions. We excluded studies in which participants were not making an active treatment or screening decision, or if the study's intervention was not available to determine that it met the minimum criteria to qualify as a patient decision aid.
Two review authors independently screened abstracts for inclusion, and extracted data from included studies using standardized forms. The primary outcomes focused on the effectiveness criteria of the International Patient Decision Aid Standards (IPDAS) Collaboration: attributes of the decision and attributes of the decision process. We considered other behavioural, health, and health system effects as secondary outcomes. We pooled results of RCTs using mean differences (MD) and relative risks (RR) using a random effects model.
We searched Cochrane CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Oxford Pain Relief Database for studies to May 2009.
Randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trials of single dose orally administered ibuprofen (any formulation) in adults with moderate to severe acute postoperative pain.
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Pain relief or pain intensity data were extracted and converted into the dichotomous outcome of number of participants with at least 50% pain relief over 4 to 6 hours, from which relative risk and number-needed-to-treat-to-benefit (NNT) were calculated. Numbers of participants using rescue medication over specified time periods, and time to use of rescue medication, were sought as additional measures of efficacy. Information on adverse events and withdrawals were collected.
Electronic search of MEDLINE (Jan. 1966-June 2008), EMBASE, CINAHL, the Cochrane clinical trial register, using standard search strategy of the hypertension review group with additional terms.
Randomized trials of at least one year duration comparing one of 6 major drug classes with a placebo or no treatment. More than 70% of people must have BP &gt;140/90 mmHg at baseline.
The outcomes assessed were mortality, stroke, coronary heart disease (CHD), cardiovascular events (CVS), decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and withdrawals due to adverse drug effects. Risk ratio (RR) and a fixed effects model were used to combine outcomes across trials.
Cochrane Renal Group studies register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled studies, MEDLINE, and EMBASE. Congress abstracts (American Society of Nephrology since 1990, European Dialysis Transplant Association since 1985, International Society of Nephrology since 1987). Direct contacts with investigators.
Randomised studies comparing two different levels of protein intake in adult patients suffering from moderate to severe kidney failure, followed for at least one year.
Two authors independently selected studies and extracted data. Statistical analyses were performed using the random effects model and the results expressed as risk ratio (RR) for dichotomous outcomes with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Collection of the number of "renal deaths" defined as the need for starting dialysis, the death of a patient or a kidney transplant during the study.
We updated the electronic searches on the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2006); MEDLINE (January 1966 to February 2006) and EMBASE (1980 to February 2006). The manufacturers of Oscillococcinum were contacted for information.
Placebo-controlled trials of Oscillococcinum or homeopathically-prepared influenza virus, influenza vaccine or avian liver in the prevention and treatment of influenza and influenza-like syndromes.
Two authors extracted data and assessed methodological quality independently.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library, Issue 3, 2008), MEDLINE (January 1966 to July 2008), EMBASE (January 1985 to 2008 Week 31), PsycINFO (1967 to 7 August 2008) and reference lists of articles.
Randomised controlled trials of interventions involving the use of buprenorphine to modify the signs and symptoms of withdrawal in participants who were primarily opioid dependent. Comparison interventions involved reducing doses of methadone, alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists, symptomatic medications or placebo, or different buprenorphine-based regimes.
One author assessed studies for inclusion and methodological quality, and undertook data extraction. Inclusion decisions and the overall process was confirmed by consultation between all authors.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register (October 2003). We scanned lists of references from review articles and primary studies.
Randomised and quasi-randomised trials evaluating the effects of adjunctive corticosteroids in patients diagnosed with HELLP syndrome were sought.
The two authors independently applied inclusion criteria, assessed trial quality and extracted relevant data.
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched December 2008), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library Issue 3, 2008), MEDLINE (1966 to December 2008) and EMBASE (1980 to December 2008). We contacted pharmaceutical companies known to produce a lipid-lowering agent for information on relevant publications or unpublished work.
Unconfounded randomised trials of participants aged 18 years and over with a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA).
Two review authors independently selected trials, assessed quality and extracted data.
We searched the following databases up to Dec 2008: the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, EMBASE, PubMED, CINAHL, Current Contents, Psychlit, CORK [www. state.vt.su/adap/cork], Alcohol and Drug Council of Australia (ADCA) [www.adca.org.au], Australian Drug Foundation (ADF-VIC) [www.adf.org.au], Centre for Education and Information on Drugs and Alcohol (CEIDA) [www.ceida.net.au], Australian Bibliographic Network (ABN), and Library of Congress databases, available NIDA monographs and the College on Problems of Drug Dependence Inc. proceedings, the reference lists of all identified studies and published reviews; authors of identified RCTs were asked about other published or unpublished relevant RCTs.
All randomised controlled clinical trials of methadone maintenance therapy compared with either placebo maintenance or other non-pharmacological therapy for the treatment of opioid dependence.
Reviewers evaluated the papers separately and independently, rating methodological quality of sequence generation, concealment of allocation and bias. Data were extracted independently for meta-analysis and double-entered.
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialized Register (to March 2007), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2007, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1966 to May 01, 2008), EMBASE (1980 to February 06 2007), CINAHL (1982 to July 01 2007) and two other electronic databases. We also searched reference lists of articles, reviewed conference abstracts and contacted authors.
Randomised controlled trials reporting physical outcomes of PRT for older people were included.
Two review authors independently selected trials, assessed trial quality and extracted data. Data were pooled where appropriate.
Cochrane CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE and Oxford Pain Relief Database, searched in May 2009.
Randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trials of single dose orally administered oxycodone, with or without paracetamol, in adults with moderate to severe acute postoperative pain.
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Pain relief or pain intensity data were extracted and converted into the dichotomous outcome of number of participants with at least 50% pain relief over 4 to 6 hours, from which relative risk and number-needed-to-treat-to-benefit (NNT) were calculated. Numbers of participants remedicating over specified time periods, and time-to-use of rescue medication, were sought as additional measures of efficacy. Adverse events and withdrawals information was collected.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register and reference lists of relevant papers (May 2009).
Clinical trials comparing mifepristone used for third trimester cervical ripening or labour induction with placebo/no treatment or other labour induction methods.
A strategy was developed to deal with the large volume and complexity of trial data relating to labour induction. This involved a two-stage method of data extraction. For this update, two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.
Standard search methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review group were used. These included searches in January 2009 of The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, previous reviews including cross references, abstracts, conferences and symposia proceedings, expert informants, and journal hand searching by the Cochrane Collaboration.
Randomized or quasi-randomized trials comparing HFOV and CV in term or near term infants with intractable respiratory failure were included in this review.
The standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group were used. The investigators separately extracted, assessed and coded all data for each study. Any disagreement was resolved by discussion. Data were synthesized using risk ratio [RR with (95% confidence intervals, CI)] and mean difference (with standard deviation, SD).
We searched the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders &amp; Subfertility Group trials register (searched September 2008 ), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Cochrane Library, September 2008), MEDLINE (January 1966 to September 2008), and EMBASE (January 1985 to September 2008).
Randomised controlled trials which investigated the effect of insulin sensitising drugs compared with either placebo or no treatment, or compared with an ovulation induction agent.
Thirty nine trials (3576 subjects) were included for analysis, 31 of them using metformin and involving 2625 participants.
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group specialised register (November 2002), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library, Issue 1, 2003), MEDLINE (1966 to February 2003), EMBASE (1988 to 2003 Week 8), CINAHL (1982 to February 2003), the National Research Register (Issue 1, 2003), PEDro, conference proceedings and reference lists of articles. No language restrictions were applied.
Randomised or quasi-randomised clinical trials involving skeletally mature patients with a fracture of the distal radius, which compared surgical treatment with conservative treatment, different types of surgical intervention or the duration of immobilisation after surgery. The main categories of surgical intervention were external fixation, percutaneous pinning, open reduction and internal fixation, and the insertion of bone scaffolding materials.
All trials, meeting the selection criteria, were independently assessed by both reviewers for methodological quality. Data were extracted for anatomical, functional and clinical outcomes (including complications). The trials were grouped into categories relating to the main comparisons and types of surgical intervention. Despite clear heterogeneity in the characteristics of comparable trials, pooling of data was undertaken where possible and appropriate.
We searched the Cochrane Epilepsy Group's Specialized Register (February 2009), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2009), and MEDLINE (1950 to January 2009). We also searched EMBASE (1980 to March 2003). We imposed no language restrictions. We searched the ISRCTN register for ongoing trials and in addition, we contacted pharmaceutical companies and colleagues in the field to seek any unpublished or ongoing studies.
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of the administration of drug therapy to patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.
Two review authors independently extracted data. Analysis included assessing study quality, as well as statistical analysis of the effects on overall seizure rates and effects on specific seizure types (e.g. drop attacks), adverse effects and mortality.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (January 2009) and bibliographies of relevant papers.
Randomised controlled trials comparing alternative management strategies for women with GDM and impaired glucose tolerance in pregnancy.
Two authors and a member of the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's editorial team extracted and checked data independently. Disagreements were resolved through discussion with the third author.
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (March 2005) and Cochrane Rehabilitation and Related Therapies Field Specialised Register (March 2005), the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (The Cochrane Library, Issue 1, 2005), PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, AMED and reference lists of articles. The date of the last search was March 2005. No language restrictions were applied.
We included randomised controlled trials studying conservative interventions (e.g. exercises, relaxation, physical applications, biofeedback, myofeedback and work-place adjustments) for adults suffering CANS.
Two authors independently selected trials from the search yield, assessed the methodological quality using the Delphi list, and extracted relevant data. We pooled data or, in the event of clinical heterogeneity or lack of data, we used a rating system to assess levels of evidence.
MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, conference proceedings and reference lists of identified studies were searched.
Randomised controlled trials of any antihypertensive agent applied to kidney transplant recipients for at least two weeks were included.
Data was extracted by two investigators independently. Study quality, transplant outcomes and other patient centred outcomes were assessed using random effects meta-analysis. Risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous outcomes and mean difference (MD) for continuous outcomes, both with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Stratified analyses and meta-regression were used to investigate heterogeneity.
We searched the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Specialised Register of controlled trials (15 August 2008), CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 3), MEDLINE (1950 to August 2008), EMBASE (1980 to August 2008), Biological Abstracts (1969 to August 2008), the National Research Register, and relevant citation lists.
Only randomised controlled trials comparing one surgical approach to hysterectomy with another were included.
Independent selection of trials and data extraction were employed following Cochrane guidelines.
In February 2007 we searched the trials registers of the Cochrane Stroke, Movement Disorders and Injuries Groups, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2007), MEDLINE (from 1966), EMBASE (from 1980), CINAHL (from 1983), AMED (from 1985), PsycINFO (from 1967) and RECAL (from 1990), and other databases and trials registers. We screened reference lists, contacted lead authors and other researchers in the field.
We included randomised controlled trials of orthoses applied to the upper or lower limb in people with stroke and other non-progressive brain lesions.
Two review authors independently identified trials, extracted data, and assessed trial quality. Results for continuous outcomes were combined and analysed using mean difference or standardised mean difference, both with 95% confidence intervals and fixed-effect model.
The Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group searched their Specialised Register (last searched 24 April 2009) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials in The Cochrane Library (last searched Issue 2, 2009)We handsearched meeting abstracts, and consulted with colleagues and investigators as well as the manufacturers of the various LMWH preparations to identify unpublished or missed studies.
Randomised controlled trials comparing unfractionated heparin (UFH) or low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) with placebo or no treatment, or comparing UFH with LMWH.
One author identified possible trials, and the other author confirmed eligibility for inclusion in the review. Both authors extracted the data. Disagreements were resolved by discussion. We performed the meta-analysis as a fixed-effect model with relative risks.
In this update, we searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Trials Register (April 2009), MEDLINE (January 1966 to April 24 2009), EMBASE January 1980 to April 24 2009), CINAHL (January 1982 to May 6 2009), AMED (January 1985 to April 24 2009), the British Nursing Index (January 1985 to January 2008) and Royal College of Nursing Journal of Databases (January 1985 to January 2008).
Randomised and quasi-randomised trials of physical, orthotic and surgical treatments for foot drop resulting from lower motor neuron or muscle disease and related contractures were included. People with primary joint disease were excluded. Interventions included a 'wait and see' approach, physiotherapy, orthoses, surgery and pharmacological therapy. The primary outcome measure was quantified ability to walk whilst secondary outcome measures included range of movement, dorsiflexor torque and strength, measures of activity and participation, quality of life and adverse effects.
Methodological quality was evaluated by two authors using the van Tulder criteria. Four studies with a total of n = 152 participants were included in the update to the original review. Heterogeneity of the studies precluded pooling the data.
The Specialized Register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group (CDCIG), The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL and LILACS were searched on 7 February 2008 using the terms: valproic OR valproate OR divalproex* . The CDCIG Specialized Register contains records from all major health care databases (The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, LILACS) as well as from many trials databases and grey literature sources.
Randomized, placebo-controlled trials with concealed allocation where agitation and dementia of participants were assessed
1. Two reviewers extracted data from published trials 2. Odds ratios of average differences were calculated 3. Only "intention to treat" analyses were included 4. Analysis compared participants treated with valproic acid with controls
We searched CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2007, Issue 3), MEDLINE (January 1966 to June 2007), and EMBASE (1980 to June 2007). We also contacted manufacturers and researchers in the field.
We included randomized controlled trials of topical and systemic prophylactic lidocaine therapy versus control (using air or saline) that reported on the risk and severity of postoperative sore throat as an outcome.
Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. We contacted study authors for additional information, such as the risk of adverse effects.
Trials were identified by searching the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library, Issue 4, 2008), MEDLINE (1996 - Nov 2008), EMBASE (1982 - Nov 2008) and reference lists of published trials.
Randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials of antiviral therapy in infants less than one month of age with virologically proven HSV infection were included.
Data were extracted and the analyses performed independently by two review authors. Studies were analysed for methodological quality using the criteria of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group. All data were analysed using RevMan 5.1. When possible, meta-analysis was performed to calculate typical relative risk, typical risk difference, along with their 95% confidence intervals (CI).
We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled trials (CENTRAL, in The Cochrane Library), the Cochrane Renal Group's specialised register and handsearched reference lists of textbooks, articles and scientific proceedings.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs comparing statins with placebo, no treatment or other hypolipidaemic agents in dialysis patients.
Two authors independently assessed study quality and extracted data. Statistical analyses were performed using the random effects model after testing for heterogeneity. The results were expressed as mean difference (MD) for continuous outcomes and risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous outcomes with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, comprising references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. Additional trials were sought from the reference lists of papers identified by the search strategy.Most recent search: 27 March 2009.
Randomised clinical trials comparing specific therapies for avascular necrosis of bone in people with SCD.
Each author independently extracted data and assessed trial quality. Since only one trial was identified, meta-analysis was not possible.
Electronic search of MEDLINE (1966-2008), EMBASE (1980-2008), and CENTRAL (up to June 2008); references from review articles, clinical guidelines, and clinical trials.
Randomized controlled trials comparing patients randomized to lower or to standard BP targets and providing data on any of the primary outcomes below.
Two reviewers (JAA, MIP) independently assessed the included trials and data entry. Primary outcomes were total mortality; total serious adverse events; total cardiovascular events; myocardial infarction, stroke, congestive heart failure and end stage renal disease. Secondary outcomes were achieved mean systolic and diastolic BP and withdrawals due to adverse effects.
We searched Medline, Embase, Sports Discus, PsycINFO, the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews for eligible studies in March 2007. In addition, we hand-searched several relevant journals, contacted experts in the field, searched bibliographies of retrieved articles, and performed citation searches of identified studies. We also searched www.controlled-trials.com in May 2008.
Randomised controlled trials in which exercise was compared to standard treatment, no treatment or a placebo treatment in adults (aged 18 and over) with depression, as defined by trial authors. We excluded trials of post-natal depression.
We calculated effect sizes for each trial using Cohen's method and a standardised mean difference (SMD) for the overall pooled effect, using a random effects model. Where trials used a number of different tools to assess depression, we included the main outcome measure only in the meta-analysis.
We searched for randomized controlled trials of COCs and acne in the computerized databases of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, POPLINE, and LILACS. We also searched for clinical trials in ClinicalTrials.gov and the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). We wrote to authors of identified trials to seek any unpublished or published trials that we might have missed.
All randomized controlled trials reported in any language that compared the effectiveness of a COC containing an estrogen and a progestin to placebo or another active therapy for acne in women were eligible.
We extracted data on total and specific (i.e., open or closed comedones, papules, pustules and nodules) facial lesion counts; acne severity grades; global assessments by the clinician or the participant and discontinuation due to adverse events. Data were entered and analyzed in RevMan.
We searched CENTRAL (Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the reference section of retrieved articles. Searches are current as of Februray 2008.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi-randomised controlled trials involving patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Five review authors independently selected studies, assessed study quality and extracted data.
For this update the Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Review Group searched their Specialised Register (last searched April 2009) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library (last searched Issue 2, 2009). We also searched individual trial collections and private databases, along with bibliographies of relevant articles. Relevant medical journals were handsearched.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared thrombolytic therapy with placebo or heparin or surgical intervention in patients with acute PE. We did not include trials comparing two different thrombolytic agents or different doses of the same thrombolytic drug.
Two authors (DB and WQ) assessed the eligibility and quality of trials and extracted data.
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (October 2008), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 3), MEDLINE (January 1966 to October 2008), EMBASE (January 1980 to October 2008), LILACS (October 2008) and reference lists of relevant articles.
Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials addressing the effects of different antibiotic treatments given after surgical debridement for chronic osteomyelitis in adults.
Two authors independently screened papers for inclusion, extracted data and appraised the quality of included trials. Where appropriate, we pooled data using the fixed-effect model.
Our search included CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE, PsycINFO, ISI Web of Science: Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI) and ZETOC. We handsearched selected journals and contacted key people from each WHO Safe Community. The last search was December 2008.
Two authors independently screened studies for inclusion. Included studies were those conducted within a WHO Safe Community that reported changes in population injury rates within the community compared to a control community.
Two authors independently extracted data. Meta-analysis was not appropriate due to the heterogeneity of the included studies.
An electronic search was performed using the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Specialised Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, Issue 2, 2008), MEDLINE (1966 to 2008), EMBASE (1980 to 2008) and CancerLit. The search strategy was developed using free text and medical subject headings (MESH).
The review authors selected those clinical trials that met the inclusion criteria set out based on the populations, interventions, comparisons and outcome measures.
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed trial quality. Disagreements were resolved by discussion with a third review author. Random effects meta-analyses and sub-group analyses were conducted.
We obtained studies from computerized searches of multiple electronic bibliographic databases, supplemented by checking reference lists, and consultation with experts.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) including cluster randomized trials (CRCTs), controlled clinical trials (CCT), and interrupted time series analyses (ITS) of any language publication status examining interventions of effectiveness of electronic retrieval of health information by healthcare providers.
Duplicate relevancy screening of searches, data abstraction and risk of bias assessment was undertaken.
We searched eligible studies up to January 2009 in the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, Amed, CancerLit, Psych INFO and Phytobase and reference lists of previous reviews and included studies.
We included all prospective, controlled interventional studies and observational studies, which either assessed the associations between green tea consumption and risk of cancer incidence or that reported on cancer mortality.
At least two review authors independently applied the study criteria, extracted data and assessed methodological quality of studies. Due to the nature of included studies, which were mainly epidemiological, results were summarised descriptively according to cancer diagnosis.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library Issue 3, 2008), MEDLINE (January 1950 to August 2008) and EMBASE (January 1947 to August 2008). The electronic databases were last searched on 15 August 2008. No language restrictions were placed on these searches. No handsearching was done.
We planned to analyse data from randomised controlled trials and cluster-randomised trials comparing the prevalence of amblyopia in screened versus unscreened populations.
Two authors independently assessed study abstracts identified by the electronic searches. Full text copies of appropriate studies were obtained and, where necessary, authors were contacted. No data were available for analysis and no meta-analysis was performed.
We searched: CENTRAL and DARE (Cochrane Library Issue 3, 2008), MEDLINE (1966 to 31/7/08), EMBASE (1980 to 2008 week 30), and 11 other databases, to end July 2008. We also searched relevant websites, reference lists and forward citation tracking of included studies, and handsearched six key journals. We contacted principal investigators and experts in the field.
Randomised controlled trials comparing advocacy interventions for women with experience of intimate partner abuse against usual care.
Two reviewers independently assessed trial quality and undertook data extraction. For binary outcomes we calculated a standardised estimation of the odds ratio (OR) and for continuous data we calculated either a standardised mean difference (SMD) or a weighted mean difference (WMD), both with a 95% confidence interval.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs were identified from the Cochrane Renal Group's specialised register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE and EMBASE using optimally sensitive search strategies combined with search terms for HSP.
RCTs comparing any intervention used to prevent or treat kidney disease in HSP compared with placebo, no treatment or other agents were included.
Three authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data from each study. Statistical analyses were performed using the random effects model and the results were expressed as risk ratio (RR) for dichotomous outcomes and mean difference (MD) for continuous outcomes with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's Register (January 2008).
We included all randomised clinical trials involving aggressive people with psychosis for which haloperidol plus promethazine was being used.
We reliably selected, quality assessed and extracted data from all relevant studies. For binary outcomes we calculated standard estimations of risk ratio (RR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI). Where possible we estimated weighted number needed to treat or harm (NNT/H).
We searched the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety &amp; Neurosis Group specialised register (CCDANCTR-Studies), MEDLINE (via PubMed 1966 to August 2008), EMBASE (1966 to August 2008), and PsycINFO (1972 to August 2008). Various electronic registers were searched for unpublished studies. Reference lists of retrieved articles were searched for additional studies.
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of pharmacotherapy in childhood/adolescent anxiety disorders.
Two raters independently assessed RCTs for inclusion in the review, collated trial data, and assessed trial quality. Investigators were contacted to obtain missing data. Summary statistics were stratified by medication class, and by medication agent for the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Dichotomous and continuous measures were calculated using a random effects model, heterogeneity was assessed, and subgroup/sensitivity analyses were undertaken.
Search terms and synonyms for "aerobic exercise" and "Down syndrome" were used within the following databases: CENTRAL (2007, Issue 1); MEDLINE via PUBMED (1966 to March 2007); EMBASE (2005 to April 2007); CINAHL (1982 to March 2007); LILACS (1982 to March 2007); PsycINFO (1887 to March 2007); ERIC (1966 to March 2007); CCT (March 2007); Academic Search Elite (to March 2007), C2- SPECTR (to March 2007 ), NRR (2007 Issue 1), ClinicalTrials.gov (accessed March 2007) and within supplements of Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise.
Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials using supervised aerobic exercise training programmes with behavioral components accepted as co-interventions.
Two reviewers selected relevant trials, assessed methodological quality and extracted data. Where appropriate, data was pooled using meta-analysis with a random effects model
We searched the Cochrane Drug and Alcohol Group Register of Trials (June 2008) the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2, 2008), MEDLINE January 1966-June 2008, CINAHL 1982-June 2008, EMBASE 1980-June 2008 using the search strategy developed by the Cochrane Drug and Alcohol Group. We hand searched relevant journals, conference proceedings and contacted experts in the field.
All prospective randomised controlled trials and controlled clinical trials were eligible for inclusion. Participants were adults (16 years or older) admitted to general inpatient hospital care for any reason other than specifically for alcohol treatment and received brief interventions (of up to 3 sessions) compared to no or regular treatment.
Three reviewers independently selected the studies and extracted data. Where appropriate random effects meta-analysis and sensitivity analysis were performed.
We searched the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials Register, The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) on The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2009), MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, BIOLOGICAL ABSTRACTS and Cancerlit, the National Research Register and Clinical Trials register, with no language restriction. Abstracts of scientific meetings and the citation lists of included studies and other relevant publications were checked through hand searching and experts in the field were contacted to identify further reports of trials.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing adjuvant radiotherapy with adjuvant radiotherapy and cisplatin-chemotherapy after radical surgery for early stage cervix cancer were included.
Two review authors extracted data independently to assess whether the studies met the specified inclusion criteria. Any discrepancies were solved by a third and a forth review author. Meta-analysis was performed using a random effects model, with death and disease progression as outcomes.
Electronic searches were undertaken in the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 3), MEDLINE (1950 to September 2008), EMBASE (1980 to September 2008), CINAHL (1982 to September 2008), and PsycINFO (up to September 2008).
Only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared the use of interventions to reduce blood loss during myomectomy to placebo or no treatment were included.
The two authors independently selected RCTs for inclusion, assessed the methodological quality of trials, and extracted data. We expressed study results as mean differences (MD) for continuous data and odds ratios for dichotomous data, with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, as well as proceedings from ECCO, ESMO and ASCO until November 2008. In addition, reference lists from trials were scanned, experts in the field and drug manufacturers were contacted to obtain further information.
Randomized controlled trials on targeted anti-angiogenic drugs in metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC).
Data collection and analysis was performed, according to a previously published protocol. Because individual patient data was not provided, aggregate data had to be used for the analysis. Summary statistics for the primary endpoints were hazard ratios (HR's) and their 95% confidence intervals.
The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2009), MEDLINE (1966-March 6, 2009), EMBASE (1988-March 6, 2009), LlLACS (1982 to February 17, 2009), Gateway (March 6, 2009), and AIDSearch (2006 -February 2008) were used to identify published, potentially eligible trials. Further, we searched several electronic sources. For additional information see the Cochrane HIV/AIDS Group search strategy.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the effectiveness of systemic treatments for previously untreated AIDS-related NHL. There were no age or language restrictions.
Authors independently assessed relevant studies for inclusion; four RCTs were selected. No meta-analysis was attempted due to clinical heterogeneity.
In February 2008, we searched the Cochrane Library, PubMed, EMBASE, AIDSearch and GATEWAY and checked reference lists of identified articles. In May 2009, we repeated the search in PubMed and the Cochrane Library.
We selected randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with a minimum follow-up time of six months which compared Trizivir with either a PI- or NNRTI-based therapy among antiretroviral-naive HIV-infected patients aged at least 13 years.
Three authors independently extracted data. We calculated the relative risk (RR) or mean difference (as appropriate) for each outcome with its 95% confidence interval (CI) and conducted meta-analysis using the random-effects method because of significant statistical heterogeneity (P&lt;0.1).
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2009, issue 1) which contains the Acute Respiratory Infection Group's Specialized Register; MEDLINE (January 1966 to March 2009) and EMBASE (January 1990 to March 2009).
Randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials comparing vaccination with any combined DTP-HBV-HIB vaccine, with or without three types of inactivated poliovirus (IPV) or concomitant oral polio vaccine (OPV) in any dose, preparation or time schedule, compared with separate vaccines or placebo, administered to infants aged up to two years.
Two review authors independently inspected references identified by the searches and evaluated them against the inclusion criteria, extracted data and assessed the methodological quality of included trials.
We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2009, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1966 to April 2009), EMBASE (1956 to April 2009), CINAHL (1982 to April 2009), AMED (1985 to April 2009), DARE, Dissertation Abstracts and PEDro (physiotherapy evidence database).
Randomised and controlled clinical trials evaluating the efficacy and safety of corticosteroid injections for de Quervain's tenosynovitis.
After screening abstracts of studies identified by the search we obtained full text articles of studies which fulfilled the selection criteria. We extracted data using a predefined electronic form. We assessed the methodological quality of included trials by using the checklist developed by Jadad and the Delphi list. We extracted data on the primary outcome measures: treatment success; severity of pain or tenderness at the radial styloid; functional impairment of the wrist or hand; and outcome of Finkelstein's test, and the secondary outcome measures: proportion of patients with side effects; type of side effects and patient satisfaction with injection treatment.
The Cochrane Oral Health Group Trials Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched with appropriate search strategies. Handsearching included nine dental journals. The bibliographies of relevant clinical trials and relevant articles were checked for identifying studies outside the handsearched journals. Seven manufacturers of instruments in the field of endodontics and/or endodontic surgery, as well as the authors of the identified randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were contacted in order to identify unpublished or ongoing RCTs. There were no language restrictions. The last electronic search was conducted on 2nd April 2009, and the last handsearching was undertaken on 31st January 2009.
All randomised and quasi-randomised trials comparing endodontic therapy performed with or without using one or more types of magnification device, as well as randomised and quasi-randomised trials comparing two or more magnification devices used as an adjunct to endodontic therapy were considered.
Screening of studies and data extraction were conducted independently and in duplicate. The Cochrane Collaboration statistical guidelines were to be followed for data synthesis.
The following databases were searched:The Cochrane Central Register for Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, MEDLINE, AIDSLINE, CINAHL, Dissertation Abstracts International (DAI), EMBASE, BIOSIS, SCISEARCH, the Cochrane HIV/AIDS group specialized register, INDMED, Proquest, and various South Asian abstracting databases, will be included in the database list. The publication sites of the World Health Organization, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other international research and non-governmental organizations. An extensive search strategy string was developed in consultation with the trial search coordinator of the HIV/AIDS Review Group. Numerous relevant keywords were included in the string to get an exhaustive electronic literature search. The search was not restricted by language. Articles from other languages were translated into English with the help of experts. A hand search was carried out in many journals and abstracts of the conference proceedings of national and international conferences related to AIDS (e.g. the International Conference on HIV/AIDS and STI in Africa [ICASA]). Efforts also were made to contact experts to identify unpublished research and trials still underway.
Intervention studies. Randomized control trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs involving HIV-infected individuals with family support in developing countries.
We independently screened the results of the search to select potentially relevant studies and to retrieve the full articles. We independently applied the inclusion criteria to the potentially relevant studies. No studies were identified that fulfilled the selection criteria.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and African Healthline (December 2007); and proceedings of relevant international conferences (from 1981 to date).
Randomised controlled trials comparing any two or more antimicrobial agents, or antimicrobial agents with placebo or no treatment, in women with clinical or Gram-stain criteria of BV.
Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data from the original publications while the third author cross checked the data.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2006, Issue 3), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and LILACS (from inception to July 2006). There were no language restrictions.
We included randomized controlled trials of incentive spirometry in adult patients admitted for any type of upper abdominal surgery, including patients undergoing laparoscopic procedures.
Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched March 2008), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library Issue 2, 2008), MEDLINE (1966 to May 2008), EMBASE (1980 to May 2008), CINAHL (1982 to May 2008), AMED (1985 to March 2008), Science Citation Index Expanded (1981 to May 2008), ISI Proceedings (Web of Science, 1982 to May 2006), Physiotherapy Evidence Database (http://www.pedro.org.au/) (May 2008), REHABDATA (http://www.naric.com/research/rehab/) (1956 to May 2008), http://www.clinicaltrials.gov (May 2008), http://www.controlled-trials.com/ (May 2008), and http://www.strokecenter.org/ (May 2008). We also searched reference lists of relevant articles, and contacted authors and trial investigators.
Randomised controlled trials comparing overground physical therapy gait training with a placebo intervention or no treatment for chronic stroke patients with mobility deficits.
Pairs of authors independently selected trials. Three authors independently extracted data and assessed quality. We contacted study authors for additional information.
We searched the Cochrane Ear, Nose and Throat Disorders Group Trials Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); PubMed; EMBASE; CINAHL; Web of Science; BIOSIS Previews; Cambridge Scientific Abstracts; mRCT and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the most recent search was 24 February 2009.
Two independent authors assessed identified studies according to the eligibility criteria: RCTs which delivered radiotherapy combined with or without erythropoietin, in patients of any age with head and neck cancer of any stage or type. In addition, trials administering concomitant iron therapy among one or both arms were also eligible.
For statistical analysis of survival data, we computed a weighted estimate of the typical treatment effect across studies. We used Chi(2) heterogeneity tests to test for statistical heterogeneity among trials and performed the statistical analyses using Review Manager 5.0.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2009, issue 1), which includes the Acute Respiratory Infections Group Specialised Register; OLDMEDLINE (1950 to 1965); MEDLINE (January 1966 to March Week 3, 2009); EMBASE (1974 to March 2009); and AMED (1985 to March 2009).
Randomised controlled trials of common cold prevention and treatment comparing garlic with placebo, no treatment or standard treatment.
Two review authors independently reviewed and selected trials from searches, assessed and rated study quality, and extracted relevant data.
We identified the relevant phase II and III randomised controlled trials in any language trough electronic searches May 2007 of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2007), the Cochrane Colorectal Cancer Groups Specialised Register, MEDLINE (from 1966), EMBASE (from 1974), CINAHL (from 1982). Furthermore, various trial databases were searched for the identification of recent completed and ongoing trials (metaRegister of Controlled Trials, Cancer Research UK, Cancer.gov, The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Trials Database). All studies identified until May 2007 were considered for inclusion in the present study.
Only phase II and III randomised controlled clinical trials were included in the analysis.
All identified studies were assessed by two independent reviewers. A weighted estimate of the treatment effect was computed for 2, 3, 4 and 5-year survival, for local tumour recurrence, severe acute and late toxicity and complete tumour response (CR). CR was defined either clinically by disappearance of all pretreatment signs of local tumour or pathologically by microscopically free margins. The risk ratio (RR) and hazard ratio (HR) were used. Analyses were performed with the Reference Manager (RevMan).
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (March 2008) and MEDLINE (up to November 2008). We checked reference lists of all identified randomised controlled trials and requested pharmaceutical companies marketing investigational products to provide relevant published and unpublished data.
We included only randomised controlled trials recruiting people of both sexes, aged 18 years or more, with a diagnosis of treatment-resistant schizophrenia (or related disorders) and comparing clozapine plus another antipsychotic drug with clozapine plus a different antipsychotic drug.
Two review authors independently extracted data and resolved disagreement by discussion with third member of the team. When insufficient data were provided, we contacted the study authors.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, SPORTDiscus, PEDro, the Australian Clinical Trials Registry, Current Controlled Trials (to October 2007) and the references and citations of included studies.
We included randomised controlled trials and controlled clinical trials of people with rotator cuff disease who received topical glyceryl trinitrate, alone or in combination, compared to placebo or active therapy.
Two authors independently assessed risk of bias and extracted data.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2009, issue 1) which includes the Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI) Group's Specialized Register; MEDLINE (January 1966 to March 2009); EMBASE (January 1980 to March 2009); CINAHL (January 1982 to March 2009); ProQuest Digital Dissertations (January 1938 to March 2009); KoreaMed (January 1958 to March 2009) and KMbase (January 1949 to March 2009).
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) studying treatment of the common cold with NSAIDs in adults or children.
Four review authors extracted data (SYK, YSM, YJC, YWH). We subdivided trials into placebo-controlled RCTs and NSAIDs versus NSAIDs RCTs. We extracted and summarized data on global efficacies: analgesic effects such as reduction of headache and myalgia; non-analgesic effects such as reduction of nasal symptoms, cough, sputum and sneezing; and side effects.
We searched the Cochrane Ear, Nose and Throat Disorders Group Trials Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library issue 4, 2008); PubMed; EMBASE; CINAHL; Web of Science; BIOSIS Previews; Cambridge Scientific Abstracts; NIOSHTIC, CISDOC and mRCT to 15 December 2008.
Randomised controlled trials, controlled before-after studies and interrupted time series (ITS) of non-clinical hearing loss prevention interventions under field conditions among workers exposed to noise.
Two authors (EK, JV) independently assessed study eligibility and trial quality and extracted data.
In this 2008 update, we searched online for published and unpublished studies in The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL, and AIDSEARCH. We also searched databases listing conference abstracts, scanned reference lists of articles, and contacted authors of included studies.
We searched for RCTs and quasi-RCTs that compared HIV-1 progression as measured by changes in CD4 count, viral load, or clinical disease progression in HIV-1 infected individuals receiving anti-helminthic therapy.
Data regarding changes in CD4 count, HIV-1 RNA levels, and/or clinical staging after treatment of helminth co-infection were extracted from identified studies.
We searched CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2009, Issue 1). We searched the following databases from inception to 14th December 2008: MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, DISSERTATION ABSTRACTS, Web of Science and EMBASE.
We included randomized controlled trials of a non-pharmacological intervention implemented on the day of surgery or anaesthesia.
Two authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias in trials.
Our search included the Cochrane Epilepsy Group's Specialised Register and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2007, Issue 1), MEDLINE (1950 to 2007) and EMBASE (1974 to 2007).
Randomised controlled trials evaluating traditional Chinese medicine in people of any age with any type of epilepsy, and comparing one formula of TCM with no intervention, placebo or single Western medicine (monotherapy).
Two review authors independently extracted trial data and assessed quality. We assessed the following outcomes: (a) seizure freedom for at least one year; (b) 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency; (c) percentage reduction in seizure frequency and duration; and (d) adverse events.
The search strategy developed for the Movement Disorders Group was undertaken. The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, Medline, EMBASE and Clinical Trials Database of the United States National Institute of Health were thoroughly searched until December 2007.
All randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trials of therapeutics investigated with the goal of modifying disease progression in HD were included. Participants should have genetically confirmed diagnosis of HD or compatible symptoms and a family history. Trials had a follow-up duration of more than three months and at least ten participants. All pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions were included.
Two reviewers independently assessed the eligibility of identified trials. The methodological quality was assessed and eligible data were registered onto standardised forms. An intention-to-treat analysis was conducted, when feasible. If data were not available in the original publication, the principal investigator of the trial was contacted for further information. A meta-analysis was to be conducted when possible; otherwise, a descriptive summary of the results was provided. The software Revman 5.0.15 was used for statistical analysis.
The search strategy developed for the Movement Disorders Group was undertaken. Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, Medline, EMBASE and Clinical Trials Database of the United States National Institute of Health were thoroughly searched up until December 2007.
All randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trials conducted on any symptomatic therapy used for HD with at least ten participants were included. Participants should have HD clinical features and a confirmatory genetic diagnosis or a compatible family history. All disease variants and ages of disease onset were included. Cross-over studies were included. All pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions aimed at the control of signs and symptoms associated with HD were to be selected.
Two reviewers independently assessed the identified trials for eligibility. In the selected trials, the assessment of their methodological quality was done according to the Cochrane Collaboration handbook, and eligible data were registered onto standardised forms. If possible, an intention-to-treat analysis was conducted. When data were not available in the original publication, the principal investigator of the trial was contacted. A meta-analysis was conducted when possible and otherwise the descriptive summary of the results was provided. The software Revman 5.0.15 was used for statistical analysis.
We searched the Cochrane Airways Trials Register (December 2008).
Randomised controlled trials of allergen exposure reduction for the primary prevention of asthma in children. Interventions were multifaceted (reducing exposure to both inhalant and food allergens) or monofaceted (reducing exposure to either inhalant or food allergens) Follow up had to be from birth (or during pregnancy) up to a minimum of two years of age.
We included in the analysis studies assessing the primary outcome (current diagnosis: asthma) and/or one of the secondary outcomes (current respiratory symptoms: wheezing, nocturnal coughing and dyspnoea). We pooled multifaceted and monofaceted intervention trials separately. We made an indirect comparison of their effects using tests for interaction to calculate relative odds ratios.
We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Trials Register (searched April 2 2009), MEDLINE (searched January 1966 to April 2 2009), EMBASE (searched January 1980 to April 2 2009) and contacted authors of relevant publications and other experts to obtain additional references, unpublished trials, and ongoing trials.
We intended to include all randomised and quasi-randomised trials of any immunotherapy in participants with the condition fulfilling all the following: diabetes mellitus as defined by internationally recognised criteria, acute or subacute onset of pain and lower motor neuron weakness involving predominantly the proximal muscles of the lower limbs, weakness that is not confined to one nerve or nerve root distribution and exclusion of other causes of lumbosacral radiculopathies and plexopathy.
Two authors independently examined all references retrieved by the search to select those meeting the inclusion criteria.
The Cochrane Collaboration Depression, Anxiety &amp; Neurosis review group Controlled Trials Register (CCDANCTR-Studies and CCDANCTR-References) were electronically searched in August 2008. References of relevant trials and other reviews were also checked. Trial databases of the drug-approving agencies and ongoing clinical trial registers for all published and unpublished trials were hand-searched in 2007. All relevant authors were contacted for supplemental data. No language restriction was applied.
Randomised controlled trials comparing milnacipran with any other active antidepressive agents (including non-conventional agents such as herbal products like hypericum) as monotherapy in the acute phase of major depression were selected.
Two reviewers independently checked eligibility, assessed methodological quality and extracted data from the eligible trials using a standardised data extraction form. The number of participants who responded to treatment or those who achieved remission were calculated on an intention-to-treat basis. Random-effects meta-analyses were conducted, combining data from the included trials.
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE on 14 November 2008.
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of laser treatment of drusen in AMD in which laser treatment had been compared with no intervention or sham treatment. Two types of trials were included. Some trials studied one eye of each patient (unilateral studies); other studies recruited patients with bilateral drusen and randomised one eye to photocoagulation or control and the fellow eye to the other group.
Two review authors independently selected studies and extracted data. We pooled data from unilateral and bilateral studies using a random-effects model. For the bilateral studies, we estimated the within-patient correlation coefficient from one study and assumed it was valid for the others.
We searched the Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library) and the following English language electronic databases (from their inception to the present): MEDLINE, EMBASE, AMED, CINAHL, NLH on the 30/04/09.We also searched Chinese language electronic databases: Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM), China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Chinese Sci &amp; Tech Journals (VIP), Traditional Chinese Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System (TCMLARS), and Chinese Medical Current Contents (CMCC).
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving CHM versus placebo, biomedical treatment, another CHM intervention, or CHM plus biomedical treatment versus biomedical treatment were selected. Only trials with confirmed randomisation procedures and laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis were included.
