Revision of methods for estimating corneal power (Kpost) and effective lens position (ELP) for cataract surgery after corneal refractive surgery.
To evaluate postoperative outcomes and success after combined phacoemulsification and glaucoma surgery with Ex-PRESS miniature implant compared with combined surgery with standard trabeculectomy.
To compare the efficiency and secondary effects of using 1% rimexolone or 0.1% dexamethasone as postoperative treatment for cataract surgery.
To analyze changes in peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) after cataract surgery.
To study the relationship between the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and the corneal melting.
Cytokine polymorphisms may alter the fetal inflammatory response, increasing susceptibility to cerebral palsy (CP). This study investigates associations between selected inflammatory mediator and cytokine gene polymorphisms (Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4) Asp299Gly, interleukin-6 G-174C and interleukin-4 C-589T) and CP from 443 CP infants and 883 control infants. Results were correlated with viral nucleic acids in the same samples.
Assess the outcome of pregnancies with an NT measurement of 6.5 mm or greater.
To assess the incidence of adverse outcome when PAPP-A levels are at or below 0.2 multiples of the median (MoM).
The purpose of this prospective randomised study was to determine the effect of routine cervical dilatation during elective caesarean section on maternal morbidity.
To test the effectiveness of structured antenatal education for pushing in the second stage of labour versus normal care and its impact on delivery outcome.
To identify maternal, obstetric and neonatal characteristics of opioid-dependent Indigenous Australians in rural and metropolitan settings.
To describe in a tertiary hospital using the PSANZ stillbirth investigation guidelines: (i) the distribution and classification of stillbirths, and (ii) the compliance with suggested stillbirth core investigations.
This study aimed to locate all birth centres nationally, describe their characteristics and procedures, and develop a definition.
We investigated the possible relationship between cervical parakeratosis/hyperkeratosis and a false negative result for both Pap and human papillomavirus (HPV) testing.
To determine the extent of knowledge of EC among tertiary students in Far North Queensland, and their ability to access EC in the region.
To evaluate the effectiveness of 'hands-on' laparoscopic skills course.
The aim of this study was to assess whether the LNG-IUS was also a safe and effective treatment for EH and to conduct a systematic review of the literature.
To investigate the prevalence of high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) and its associated cytological abnormalities among women attending cervical screening clinics in southern Malaysia and Singapore.
To evaluate the predictive validity and responsiveness of the Home Falls and Accidents Screening Tool (HOME FAST).
This study explored the experiences of nursing assistants (NAs) who work with older people in residential aged care facilities (RACFs), to ascertain their role in Australian RACFs. Experiences with pain management were used as an example to explore their work role.
To investigate the osteoporosis risk profile of older home care clients and the prevalence of fracture and treatment within this group.
To examine gender differences in the effect of intergenerational exchanges on subjective health of Chinese rural elderly.
Inspection time (IT) is a processing speed measure, recently investigated as a biomarker of ageing. This study examined whether earlier IT predicts subsequent problems in everyday functioning in community-dwelling elderly people.
To determine if standing balance was affected by moderate levels of physical activity in healthy young, healthy older and balance-impaired older adults.
To investigate whether statins reduce all cause mortality and major coronary and cerebrovascular events in people without established cardiovascular disease but with cardiovascular risk factors, and whether these effects are similar in men and women, in young and older (&gt;65 years) people, and in people with diabetes mellitus.
To determine the long term effects of antibiotic treatment for acute otitis media in young children.
To explore women's experiences of self-care and their journey to GP care, when faced with symptoms of a UTI.
To quantify the prevalence of opinion on whether people use health services unnecessarily within primary care and accident and emergency (A&amp;E) in order to examine the impact of these views on help-seeking behaviour.
To compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of primary versus secondary care follow-up of cancer patients, determine the effectiveness of the integration of primary care in routine hospital follow-up, and evaluate the impact of patient-initiated follow-up on primary care.
To undertake a systematic review of qualitative studies examining patients' and healthcare professionals' views about cancer follow-up.
To determine GP appraisers' views of the acceptability, feasibility, and educational impact of external peer feedback received on three core appraisal activities undertaken as part of this study.
To provide insight into the experiences and needs of people with learning disabilities who have cancer.
The aim of this paper was to report the rates of sickness certification in a UK population, using sick certification rates as a precursor to addressing fitness for work.
To provide the first quantitative review and meta-analysis of the association between maternal pregnancy complications and pregnancy-related factors and risk of autism.
To review the impact of feedback of outcome to practitioners and/or patients in specialist mental health services.
To use genome-wide genetic association data to explore the relative genetic utility of seven different descriptive operational diagnostic categories relevant to bipolar illness within a large UK case-control bipolar disorder sample.
To test the hypothesis that the 5-HTTLPR differently influences response to escitalopram (an SSRI) compared with nortriptyline (a noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor).
To test in adolescents at high risk for depression whether the short 's' allele is associated with levels of morning cortisol and the subsequent onset of a depressive episode.
To estimate prevalence and correlates of DSM-IV personality disorder clusters in the World Health Organization World Mental Health (WMH) Surveys.
To describe correlates of outmigration and to estimate any association between outmigration of children and depression in rural-dwelling older parents.
To investigate the prevalence of dementia in older people undergoing emergency medical admission and its effect on outcomes.
To describe cognition in people with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia and to examine how known causes of variability in individual's performance contribute to any observed diagnostic differences.
To determine the clinical effectiveness of online, unsupported CCBT for depression in primary care.
To evaluate the effect of Jianpi Huoxue decoction (JHD)-containing serum on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) secretion and endotoxin receptor gene expression in RAW264.7 cells induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
To investigate the relationship between the severity of Chinese medicine (CM) blood stasis syndrome (BSS) with clinical features and renal lesion indexes of the primary glomerular disease.
To determine whether the ingestion of a herbal supplement called Rhodiola-Gingko Capsule (RGC) would enhance the endurance performance of healthy volunteers and change relevant hormones in a favorable manner.
To observe the therapeutic efficacy of Danggui Buxue Decoction No.1 in treating patients of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) at the peri-operational stage and its impact on the patients' immune function.
The study aimed to evaluate and compare the efficacy and safety of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine phosphate (Artekin) and artemisinin-piperaquine (Artequick) in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
To observe the clinical efficacy of Chinese drugs combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and to investigate the prognostic relevance of the main parameters in AML treated with integrative medicine.
To optimize the animal model of liver injury that can properly represent the pathological characteristics of dampness-heat jaundice syndrome of traditional Chinese medicine.
To study the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of total glycosides of Acanthopanax Giraldii (TGA).
To study the clinical effect of Tongxie Yaofang (TXYF) Granule in treating diarrhea-predominate irritable bowel syndrome (D-IBS) and its possible mechanism.
To investigate the relationship between various Chinese medicine (CM) types and T-cell subsets (CD4(+) and CD8(+)) in the colonic mucous membranes of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC).
The main aim of the present study was to attempt to reproduce the findings in the Swedish study and to obtain more information on the use of maintenance care.
To develop a population pharmacokinetic model for valganciclovir in paediatric renal transplant recipients, identify covariates that explain variability, and determine valganciclovir dosage regimens for cytomegalovirus (CMV) prophylaxis in children.
The pharmacokinetics of mycophenolic acid (MPA) are complex, with large interindividual variability over time. There are also well documented interactions with cyclosporin, and assessment of MPA exposure is therefore necessary when reducing or stopping cyclosporin therapy. Here we report on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic behaviour of MPA in renal transplant patients on standard dose, reduced dose and no cyclosporin.
Carbamazepine is a potent inducer of drug metabolizing enzymes, which results in a number of clinically significant drug-drug interactions. Deinduction occurs when long-term carbamazepine therapy is discontinued. The goal of this study was to develop a population pharmacokinetic model to describe the time course of carbamazepine deinduction.
Large local reactions (LLRs) caused by insect stings have attracted the interest of clinicians for decades, especially because of their possible role as risk factor for subsequent more severe reaction. Nonetheless, the literature on epidemiological and clinical aspects of LLR is fragmentary. Therefore, we aimed at reviewing the data available so far on the argument and the clinical implications.
The purpose of the present review is to update knowledge on acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) in terms of epidemiology, pathogenesis, cause, clinical features, diagnosis, and treatment.
To review current knowledge and recent advances in food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES).
This review presents the current knowledge of the role of T cells in drug allergy manifesting as exanthematous, pustular and bullous skin diseases, collectively referred to as nonimmediate allergic drug reactions.
Patients suffering from mastocytosis are at risk for a particularly severe Hymenoptera sting anaphylaxis. The purpose of this review is to evaluate the current knowledge on pathophysiologic events, which might explain the specific risk of patients with mastocytosis.
Fixed drug eruption is a simplified disease model for elucidating the mechanism(s) of how skin inflammation is induced by skin-resident T cells. In this review, we focus on how the presence of intraepidermal CD8+T cells resident in the fixed drug eruption lesions can provide exciting new clues to our understanding of pathomechanisms of inflammatory skin diseases.
Food allergy is a serious and growing problem. Although the current standard of care for patients with food allergies is based on avoidance of the trigger, increased understanding of the mechanisms involved in oral tolerance has shifted focus of treatment and prevention toward inducing tolerance. Here we discuss the relationship of food allergy to oral tolerance and review recent oral tolerance studies, focusing on the mechanistic role of antigen presenting cells and the generation of regulatory T cells in mice and humans.
The double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) is widely considered as the 'gold standard' for the diagnosis of food allergy. However, in adult patients, this procedure is rather rarely performed outside the academic context. This review article aims to reappraise the pros and cons of DBPCFC and to elicit some critical thoughts and discussions about the real indications of this diagnostic procedure in adult patients in everyday practice.
The aim of this study was to confirm the applicability of the basophil activation test (BAT) in the in-vitro diagnosis of drug allergy reactions.
The prevalence of allergic disorders has more than doubled in the last two decades leading to increased community concern and anxiety, and unprecedented demand for allergy-specialist services. However, although allergic reactions are common, anaphylaxis is uncommon and fatal anaphylaxis is rare. This review examines recent developments in the epidemiology of anaphylaxis, focusing on new information that may assist in identifying those at increased risk of severe reactions and adverse outcomes.
The exotic Asian lady beetle, Harmonia axyridis, has become a prominent cause of seasonal inhalant allergy (allergic rhinitis, asthma, and urticaria) in the last two decades in North America and Europe after being introduced into the environment as an agricultural pest-control predator.
Diagnosis of stinging insect allergy is based on a detailed history, venom skin tests, and detection of venom-specific IgE. As an additional diagnostic tool, basophil responsiveness to venom allergens has been shown to be helpful in selected patients. This review summarizes the current diagnostic procedures for stinging insect allergy and discusses the latest developments in cellular in-vitro tests.
Presentation of recent studies about xenobiotica metabolism of the skin and its impact on drug-allergic reactions.
Selective immediate reactions to NSAIDs imply that patients develop a urticarial/anaphylactic response to a single drug with good tolerance to other compounds. No systematic review of these reactions has yet been made.
Allergen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies play a central role in food allergic reactions. IgE epitope mapping of food allergens may provide information regarding patient's clinical history and contribute to food allergy diagnosis/prognosis. The goal of this article is to review recent developments in the methods for IgE epitope mapping and the role of IgE-binding epitopes in the characterization of food allergy.
The present review summarizes some of the key papers on the prevention of surgical site infections (SSI) published in 2008.
Emergence of drug-resistant bacteria and new or changing infectious pathogens is an important public health problem. Transmission of these pathogens in an acute care setting may occur frequently if proper precautions are not taken. Despite several guidelines and an abundance of literature on the prevention of transmission of epidemiologically important organisms in the healthcare setting, substantial controversy exists. This review focuses on recent data regarding the use of infection control and isolation precautions.
This review explores recent evidence on the association between antibiotics usage and resistance.
Healthcare-associated or nosocomial infection (HCAI) is of increasing importance to healthcare providers and the public. Surveillance is crucial but must be adjusted for risk, especially when used for interhospital comparisons or for public reporting.
In the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome has become well recognized in the HIV-infected population. However, little is known about its occurrence in non-HIV immunocompromised hosts. The present review aims to propose the pathogenesis of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, summarize its occurrence in immunocompromised patients without HIV infection, and suggest potential treatment options.
Our understanding of the infection risks posed by tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists has continued to evolve in the 10 years since these drugs were first introduced. This review summarizes recent data regarding infection risk, examines potential structure-function relationships that may account for the differences, and discusses their implications with regard to tuberculosis prevention and management.
Invasive mould infections remain major causes of infection-related mortality following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). In this review, we summarize the recent advances in the diagnosis, prevention, and management of invasive mould infections in HSCT recipients.
Despite advances in the diagnosis and management, invasive fungal diseases contribute substantially to the morbidity and mortality of patients with prolonged neutropenia.
A care bundle is set of four or five processes that each individually improve patient outcome and that should be performed together for every patient every time. We describe how bundles should be designed, implemented and evaluated with measurement designed for quality improvement rather than research or judgement.
Despite copious literature on ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), several aspects of this subject remain controversial. We review the current state of the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of VAP, paying special attention to data reported over the past year.
Human multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSC) are considered good candidates for a growing spectrum of cell therapies. We have validated a protocol that makes use of the washouts of discarded collection sets, left over at the end of the filtration of bone marrow (BM) explants performed for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation.
Many clinical trials are currently evaluating the safety and efficacy of autologous bone marrow (BM) mononuclear cells (MNC) for various pathologies in younger and older non-cancer patients. Concern has been raised that autologous MNC derived from elderly patients may be less effective as a therapeutic option.
Previous studies have shown that nicotine increases endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) numbers and functional activity. However, the mechanisms by which nicotine increases EPC numbers and activity remain to be determined. Recent studies have demonstrated that EPC numbers and activity are associated with EPC senescence, which involves telomerase activity. Therefore, we investigated whether nicotine might be able to prevent senescence of EPC through telomerase activation, leading to the potentiation of cellular function.
Peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) autografts with low CD34(+) cell content provide inadequate platelet (Plt) and red blood cell (RBC) reconstitution. Repeat collection and bone marrow (BM) harvesting are used in this situation. Minimum cell contents for BM-PBPC combined grafts are undefined.
Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) have become the preferred stem cell source for autologous hematopoietic transplantation. A critical aspect of this treatment modality is cryopreservation of the stem cell products, which permits temporal separation of the PBSC mobilization/collection phase from the subsequent high-dose therapy. While controlled rate-freezing and liquid nitrogen storage have become 'routine' practice in many cell-processing facilities, there is clearly room for improvement as current cryopreservation media formulations still result in significant loss and damage to the stem/progenitor cell populations essential for engraftment, and can also expose the patients to relatively undefined serum components and larger volumes of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) that can contribute to the morbidity and mortality of the transplant therapy.
A robust methodology for the isolation of cord blood-derived multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (CB-MSCs) from fresh umbilical cord blood has not been reported in any species. The objective of this study was to improve the isolation procedure for equine CB-MSCs.
Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) isolated from several human tissues have been known to differentiate into the hepatic lineage in vitro, but the immunogenicity of the differentiated hepatocyte-like cells (DHC) has not been reported. Umbilical cord (UC) MSC are thought to be an attractive cell source for cell therapy because of their young age and low infection rate compared with adult tissue MSC.
Bone marrow (BM) multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) hold great potential for cell-based regenerative medicine. Because of the growing use of autologous rat MSC transplantation in various rat models, there is a need to establish minimal criteria for rat MSC characterization independent of the specific strain employed in each study. We aimed to compare the phenotypic and functional traits of BM MSC from the four strains of rats commonly used in research: Fisher, Lewis, Sprague-Dawley and Wistar.
Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) are spindle-shaped plastic-adherent cells isolated from bone marrow (BM), adipose tissue and other organs, including the placenta. Autologous BM-derived MSC have been studied in animals with experimentally induced critical limb ischemia (CLI) as a model of end-stage peripheral vascular disease. While demonstrating therapeutic benefit, the use of these cells is limited by the need to surgically extract BM and the fear of thrombosis secondary to the use of granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) to mobilize the cells.
Endothelial apoptosis underlies the pathophysiology of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Some factors/cytokines released by endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) have been revealed as potent inhibitors of apoptosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of EPC on pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell (PMVEC) survival with the PAH condition.
Follistatin (FST) and the related proteins FSTL1 and FSTL3 are crucial modulators of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily and function by neutralizing activins, a group of proteins implicated in many biologic processes, such as cell proliferation and differentiation, immune responses, various endocrine activities, wound repair, inflammation and fibrosis. Activins are increased in the serum of heart failure patients and in cardiomyocytes after experimental myocardial infarction, suggesting the involvement of activins in heart failure pathogenesis. FST is considered to be a key modulator in muscle development, differentiation and regeneration, and it has been implicated in the repair of mesodermal- and endodermal-derived tissues, promoting cell proliferation and hampering fibrogenesis. We have previously demonstrated that electrostimulation (ES) induces cardiomyocyte pre-commitment of both stem and non-stem cells in vitro. In this study, we evaluated whether applying ES to human mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSC) modulated FST production.
We have evaluated the effectiveness of motivational signs in promoting stair use instead of escalators, in terms of gender and age, at a train station with a 37-step staircase. We also examined whether a newspaper article, or booster, had any effect on augmenting the impact of the signs.
The effect of dampness on sick building syndrome (SBS) symptoms has not been fully investigated in Japan. The purpose of this study is to elucidate the possible effects of dampness on SBS symptoms among residents in Japanese public apartment houses.
The present investigation aimed to evaluate the extent of mismatch between different dimensions of school furniture and the respective anthropometric measures of school children. Assessment of health problems as well as postural pattern among the school children while attending their classes in relation to the classroom furniture was the other aim of this study.
To clarify the relationship between bone mineral density (BMD) and body composition in Japanese women aged 18-40 years with low forearm BMD.
Teeth can serve as records of environmental exposure to heavy metals during their formation. We applied a new technology - synchrotron radiation microbeams (SRXRF) - for analysis of heavy metals in human permanent teeth in modern and historical samples.
The mechanism of the adverse health effects of ambient particulate matter on humans has not been well-investigated despite many epidemiologic association studies. Measurement of personal exposure to particulate pollutants and relevant biological effect markers are necessary in order to investigate the mechanism of adverse health effects, particularly in fragile populations considered to be more susceptible to the effects of pollutants.
Maternal exposure to dioxins [polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and dibenzofurans (DFs)] during pregnancy is known to affect infant growth and neurodevelopment in humans and animals. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between newborn size and the concentration of dioxin isomers in breast milk and to subsequently evaluate the potential toxicity of each dioxin isomer among mothers living in sea coast areas who are at a high risk of contamination due to a high consumption of fish.
People who live under fragile living conditions may stay overnight in Internet cafés in urban areas. An outbreak of tuberculosis (TB), the routes of which were possibly related to such a facility, has been reported. The purpose of this study was to use a mathematical model to quantify the public health risk of TB infection in such a facility.
This study investigated the incidence of caries in infants and explored the risk factors related to noteworthy variations between urban and rural areas.
There is a growing need to evaluate the performance status of the activities of daily living (ADL) of the elderly in the rapidly aging Japanese society. The purpose of this study was to verify the usefulness of our new scoring sheet for assessing present ADL status and to clarify whether or not the assessed ADL status can predict the future risk of adverse conditions related to falls.
The objective of this study was to examine the effects of educational intervention on joint angles of the trunk and lower extremity and on muscle activities during patient-handling task.
The purpose of this study was to assess how changes from different baselines of activities of daily living (ADL) can be explained by marital status, living arrangement and healthcare.
To investigate the prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in children and its relationship to metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance, and waist circumference (WC).
Clarifying the characteristics of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms in childhood is important for the prevention and management of this disorder. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of ADHD symptoms in Japanese preschool children based on evaluations performed by parents or teachers.
To examine the long-term effects of lifestyle on the recovery from risk factors of cardiovascular disease and to discuss the difference in the effects of lifestyle modification in subjects with a single risk factor and those with multiple risk factors.
The ingestion of pesticides in the daily diet is assumed to be the main modality of pesticide exposure for most people. A widely used class of pesticides in agricultural or residential settings is pyrethroid. We have examined the relationship between the intake frequency of selected items of vegetables and fruits and urinary metabolites of pyrethroid pesticides in a healthy general population.
Our objectives were (1) to evaluate whether single spot urine is suitable media for longer-term phthalate esters exposure assessment, and (2) to estimate intake level of phthalate esters of Japanese pregnant women using urinary metabolites as an indicator of prenatal exposure level in their offspring.
Many elderly patients with hip fracture (HF) present with gait deficits. As such, an HF both indirectly and directly increases the number of elderly people requiring care, making it a major medical and economic problem in an aging society. To facilitate the treatment of HF and attempt to resolve the consequences, we have attempted to derive an equation that would predict gait ability. The prediction equation was developed by multivariate analysis using standard evaluation methods, with inclusion of guaranteed objectivity where possible. We attached greater importance to the prediction of gait ability early in the period of hospitalization, since this allows for early determination of an efficient therapeutic strategy.
Previous studies on the association between physical activity (PA) and neighborhood environments (NE) focused on either objectively measuring the NE or the residents' perception of NE. Here, we investigate which actual or perceived NE is associated with residents' PA in Japan.
Mercury (Hg) is a ubiquitous and hazardous contaminant in the aquatic environment showing a strong biomagnification effect along the food chain. The most common transfer path of Hg to humans is contaminated fish consumption. In severely exposed humans, Hg poisoning may lead to damage in the central nervous system. Thus, it is important to examine current and past contamination levels of Hg in aquatic milieu. The Olt River is the largest Romanian tributary of the Danube River. The use of Hg as an electrode in a chlor-alkali plant contributed to the contamination of the aquatic environment in the Rm Valcea region. The purpose of this study was to compare the current state of Hg contamination with the past contamination using a historical record obtained from a dated sediment core from one of the Olt River reservoirs (Babeni) located downstream from the chlor-alkali plant. To our knowledge, no published data on Hg contamination in this region are available. The Babeni Reservoir was selected for this study because it is situated downstream from the chlor-alkali plant, whilst the other reservoirs only retain the pollutants coming from the upstream part of the watershed. Preliminary analyses (unpublished) showed high Hg concentrations in the surface sediment of the Babeni Reservoir. One core was taken in the upstream Valcea Reservoir to provide a local background level of Hg concentrations in sediments.
Pharmaceutically active substances are a class of emerging contaminants, which has led to increasing concern about potential environmental risks. After excretion, substantial amounts of unchanged pharmaceuticals and their metabolites are discharged into domestic wastewaters. The absence of data on the environmental exposure in Eastern Europe is significant, since use patterns and volumes differ from country to country. In Romania, the majority of wastewater, from highly populated cities and industrial complex zones, is still discharged into surface waters without proper treatment or after inefficient treatment. In respect to this, it is important to determine the environmental occurrence and behavior of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) in wastewaters and surface waters. The objective of the present study was to investigate the occurrence of selected PPCPs during the transport in the Somes River by mass flow analysis before and after upgrading a municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) in Cluj-Napoca, which serves 350,000 inhabitants and is the largest plant discharging into the Somes River. The concentrations of PPCPs at Cluj-Napoca can be correlated with the high population and a high number of hospitals located in the catchment area leading to higher mass flows. The results of this study are expected to provide information, with respect to the Romanian conditions, for environmental scientists, WWTP operators, and legal authorities. The data should support the improvement of existing WWTPs and implementation of new ones where necessary and, therefore, minimize the input of contaminants into ambient waters.
The need for global and integrated approaches to water resources management, both from the quantitative and the qualitative point of view, has long been recognized. Water quality management is a major issue for sustainable development and a mandatory task with respect to the implementation of the European Water Framework Directive as well as the Swiss legislation. However, data modelling to develop relational databases and subsequent geographic information system (GIS)-based water management instruments are a rather recent and not that widespread trend. The publication of overall guidelines for data modelling along with the EU Water Framework Directive is an important milestone in this area. Improving overall water quality requires better and more easily accessible data, but also the possibility to link data to simulation models. Models are to be used to derive indicators that will in turn support decision-making processes. For this whole chain to become effective at a river basin scale, all its components have to become part of the current daily practice of the local water administration. Any system, tool, or instrument that is not designed to meet, first of all, the fundamental needs of its primary end-users has almost no chance to be successful in the longer term.
Heavy metals such as lead are well known to cause harmful health effects. Especially children are particularly susceptible to increased levels of lead in their blood. It is also a fact that lead concentration is increasing in the environment due to increased anthropogenic activity. The risk of heavy metal contamination is pronounced in the environment adjacent to large industrial complexes. In a combined case study, the environmental pollution by heavy metals was related to children's health in the vicinity of an industrial area located 4 km south-east from Bucharest about 2 km east from the nearest town-Pantelimon. This site includes companies processing different, nonferrous solid wastes for recovery of heavy metals and producing different nonferrous alloys and lead batteries. In this paper, mainly the results of environmental sampling and analyses are summarized.
In the region of the Apuseni Mountains, part of the Western Carpathians in Romania, metal mining activities have a long-standing tradition. These mining industries created a clearly beneficial economic development in the region. But their activities also caused impairments to the environment, such as acid mine drainage (AMD) resulting in long-lasting heavy metal pollution of waters and sediments. The study, established in the context of the ESTROM programme, investigated the impact of metal mining activities both from environmental and socioeconomic perspectives and tried to incorporate the results of the two approaches into an integrated proposition for mitigation of mining-related issues.
After the discovery of chloroform in drinking water, an extensive amount of work has been dedicated to the factors influencing the formation of halogenated disinfections by-products (DBPs). The disinfection practice can vary significantly from one country to another. Whereas no disinfectant is added to many water supplies in Switzerland or no disinfectant residual is maintained in the distribution system, high disinfectant doses are applied together with high residual concentrations in the distribution system in other countries such as the USA or some southern European countries and Romania. In the present study, several treatment plants in the Somes river basin in Romania were investigated with regard to chlorine practice and DBP formation (trihalomethanes (THMs)). Laboratory kinetic studies were also performed to investigate whether there is a relationship between raw water dissolved organic matter, residual chlorine, water temperature and THM formation.
Current knowledge on environmental impacts of industrial activities in Romania, particularly persistent organic pollutants (POPs), indicates that environmental standards of the European Union are not systematically met. In our study area, additional sources of POPs are agriculture and domestic wastes. Very scarce information is available upon environmental contaminations and effects. In the present study, we investigated the chemical pollution and their eventual impact on the ecosystem by measuring POPs and by using biological indicators of pollution.
Water is a renewable resource and acceptable quality is important for human health, ecological and economic reasons, but human activity can cause great damage to the natural aquatic environment. Managing the water cycle in a sustainable way is the key to protect natural resources and human health. On a global level, the microbiological contamination of water sources is a major problem in connection with poverty and the United Nations Millennium Development Declaration is an important initiative to handle this problem. In terms of environmental health, persistent organic pollutants (POPs) circulate globally; as they travel long distances, they are found in remote areas far from their original source of application and can cause damage wherever they move to. On a global scale, United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) issued the Stockholm Convention to reduce POPs; in the European Union (EU), one intention of the Water Framework Directive (WFD) is to reach the good chemical status of waters; beside these regulations, there are other directives in support of these goals. The aim of this paper is to discuss whether the Stockholm Convention and the WFD allows meeting the targets of protection of human and environmental health, which are established in the different directives and how could we approach the targets.
This article reviews the damaging events of November 1986 and aims at striking stock two decades later.
Sweden has a long-standing salt iodization program; however, its effects on iodine intake have never been monitored on a national level. The objective of this study was to evaluate iodine nutrition in the Swedish population by measuring the urinary iodine concentration (UIC) in a national sample of Swedish school-age (6-12 years of age) children.
To identify the types and quantities of 'extra' foods, or energy-dense, nutrient-poor foods, consumed by Australian adults, and assess their contribution to total energy and nutrient intakes.
To determine whether a series of new computed tomography (CT)-derived indices are better diagnostic criteria than the classical CT-derived measurements. A second objective is to propose specific or sensitive threshold values of the most accurate criteria for the occurrence of metabolic disturbances.
To investigate the effect of a low and a high GI diet on day-long (10 h) blood concentrations of glucose, insulin, cholecystokinin (CCK) and ghrelin (GHR).
To determine if micronutrients other than iron were responsible for low hemoglobin concentrations in Colombian school children.
Evidences from randomized clinical trials and meta-analysis have claimed an association between the use of soluble dietary fiber from psyllium and a cholesterol-lowering effect. However, there is still uncertainty as to the dose-response relationship and its long-term lipid-lowering efficacy. This meta-analysis was primarily conducted to address the dose-response relationship between psyllium and serum cholesterol level and time-dependent effect of psyllium in mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemic subjects.
To evaluate the associations between serum complement factor 3 (C3) and several anthropometrical, biochemical and lifestyle features in healthy young adults, emphasizing on the putative effect of selenium intake on C3 concentrations.
Nutrient profiling of foods is defined as the science of ranking or classifying foods based on their nutrient content. Nutrient profiles can be calculated based on 100 g or 100 kcal of food or on standard serving sizes. The objective of this study was to compare the performance of nutrient profiles based on 100 g, 100 kcal and government-mandated serving sizes, and to identify the optimal base of calculation.
Several articles have described body composition in anorexia nervosa, whereas little is known about this issue in underweight ballet dancers and constitutionally lean females. The main aim of this study was to assess whether phase angle (a bioimpedance variable related to body cell mass) differs according to the type of underweight in female adolescents and young women.
Both intra-abdominal adipose tissue (IAAT) and subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue (SAAT) are associated with cardiovascular risk factors, even in childhood. Currently, the gold standard in assessing IAAT and SAAT is computed tomography (CT), which is not widely applicable. The aim of this study was to estimate abdominal fat using anthropometry, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) and ultrasound, and compare these estimates with the amounts of IAAT and SAAT determined by CT in 6 to 7-year-old children.
To investigate the effects of medium- and long-chain triacylglycerol (MLCT) on blood triglyceride (TG) in Chinese hypertriglyceridemic subjects.
The efficacy of zinc combined with vitamin A or multiple micronutrients in preventing diarrhoea is unclear in African countries with high prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-exposed children. Potential modifying factors, such as stunting, need to be addressed. The objective of this study was to determine whether adding zinc or zinc plus multiple micronutrients to vitamin A reduces diarrhoea incidence, and whether this differs between the strata of stunted or HIV-infected children.
Aim of the present study was to evaluate existing correlations between oral breathing and dental malocclusions.
The aim of this study was to record the oral health status through the mean value of the DMFT/dmft index, the CPITN values and the DDE modified index in children affected by cystic fibrosis (CF).
A preliminary study to investigate the orthodontic treatment need and its gender distribution in urban Iranian schoolchildren.
The aim of this study was to observe dentine and enamel surfaces of deciduous teeth under SEM after cavity preparation with Er:YAG laser using different fluences. The results showed that when using Er:YAG laser for cavity preparation in deciduous teeth, no carbonisation or cracks were observed on the enamel and dentine surfaces using energy output between 150-250 Mj, and frequency 15 Hz. The SEM images of the dentine and enamel surfaces were similar to previous studies on permanent teeth: enamel with a typical "lava flow" appearance as a result of an open core of the prism that has lost its typical hexagonal aspect and the dentine with opened tubules plus a difference in the mineral thickness between peritubular and intertubular.
This study aims to evaluate the bonding effectiveness of self-etch and etch-and-rinse adhesive systems in on intact and ground primary tooth enamel.
The aims of this study were to assess and compare the dental development in patients with unilateral (UCLP) and bilateral (BCLP) cleft lip and palate.
The aim of this study was to evaluate three axes: the sympathetic system (adrenaline and noradrenaline), surgical stress-related endocrine factors (prolactin, cortisol, insulin, glucose and growth hormone) and inflammatory cytokines (IL-1alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6) during excisional breast biopsy under local anesthesia (EBBLA).
Microencapsulated hepatocytes have been proposed as promising bioactive agents for packed-bed or fluidized-bed bioartificial liver assist devices (BLaDs) and for hepatocyte transplantation because of the potential advantages they offer of high mass transport rate and an optimal microenvironment for hepatocyte culture. We developed a large-scale and high-production alginate-chitosan (AC) microcapsule roller bottle culture system for the encapsulation of hepLL immortalized human hepatocytes. In this study, the efficacy of upscaling encapsulated hepLL cells production with roller bottle cultivation was evaluated in vitro.
We examined the preventive effects of alpha-tocopherol and glycyrrhizin in vitro against platelet- neutrophil microaggregate formation and neutrophil ROS production induced by HD membranes.
To review the antimicrobial possibilities for limb-sparing due to infectious complications after surgery in patients diagnosed with osteosarcoma and with implantation of prosthetic devices. PATIENTS AND PROGRESS: After several episodes of relapsing infection or even re-infection and failure of previous therapies, 5 patients (2 young, female / 1 young, male / 2 middle-aged, female) were subject to a long-term ambulatory regimen consisting of intravenous administration of daptomycin.
Achieving a 'good death' is the ultimate goal for medical staff caring for terminally ill cancer patients, but the exact definition of a 'good death' is subject to interpretation. This exploratory study investigates the differences in how Japanese cancer care staff perceive a 'good death' by using factor analysis.
To share the experiences of an adapted problem-based learning approach to audit within a palliative care setting.
The aim of the study was to examine the effect of fatigue, developed during prolonged high-intensity intermittent exercise, on the performance of soccer shooting and dribbling skill.
We examined the validity and reproducibility of a squash-specific test designed to assess change-of-direction speed.
To investigate pacing strategy during the 1-km time trial (TT) and 3- and 4-km individual pursuit (IP), in elite cyclists.
To compare the Multistage Shuttle Swim Test (MSST), Water Polo Intermittent Shuttle Test (WIST) and 5 200 m Incremental Swimming Test (IST) responses in elite female water polo players.
To compare blood lactate concentration ([Bla]) at 15 s and 45 s during the 1-min rest period between each stage of an incremental test in rowers and to establish the validity of using interchangeable sampling times.
This study examined the effects of sprint running training on sloping surfaces (3 degrees) on selected kinematic and physiological variables.
This study examined the placebo effect of caffeine on number of repetitions (reps), rating of perceived exertion (RPE), blood pressure (BP), and peak heart rate (PHR) during resistance-training exercise with repetitions (reps) performed to volitional failure.
This study investigated the effects of hot conditions on the acute recovery of voluntary and evoked muscle performance and physiological responses following intermittent exercise.
The time-motion characteristics and the within-athlete variability in movement patterns were quantified for the same male fast bowler playing One Day International (ODI) cricket matches (n=12).
To evaluate the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid examination and other diagnostic techniques, compared with the use of the Baermann technique performed on fecal samples as the reference standard, for detection of naturally occurring Aelurostrongylus abstrusus infection in a population of cats.
To determine the association among signalment, health status, other clinical variables, and treatments and events during cardiopulmonary cerebral resuscitation (CPCR) with the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) for animals with cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA) in a veterinary teaching hospital.
To evaluate whether games of popular professional football teams have an effect on small animal emergency room caseload and percentage of dogs and cats that subsequently are hospitalized, are euthanatized, or die following admission to veterinary emergency rooms located within a dedicated fan base.
To compare clinical usefulness of ultrasonography versus radiography for detection of fragmentation of the dorsal aspect of the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) and metatarsophalangeal (MTP) joints in horses.
To evaluate the efficacy of furosemide for prevention of exercise-induced pulmonary hemorrhage (EIPH) in Thoroughbred racehorses under typical racing conditions.
To identify and evaluate coping strategies advocated by experienced animal shelter workers who directly engaged in euthanizing animals.
To establish a fluorescence-based assay for drug interactions with the ABC-export-protein BCRP (ABCG2).
We describe a simple and less costly method to perform AES in a unit that already has echoendoscopes available by inserting the endoscope through a disposable anoscope filled with standard ultrasound gel.
To test the hypothesis that obese children are at higher risk of having gastroesophageal reflux symptoms compared with nonobese children.
To determine the efficacy and safety of combination therapy in patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and protein induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist-II (PIVKA-II) are most widely used tumor markers in detecting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Recently, there have been some studies about them as prognostic markers in hepatitis C virus-associated HCC. However, prognostic values of AFP and PIVKA-II remain clarified in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated HCC. This study was aimed to evaluate the prognostic values of AFP and PIVKA-II in HBV-associated HCC.
To establish the relevance of variants in the IL-23R and ATG16L1 genes in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Three recent genome wide association studies have identified variants in the IL-23R and ATG16L1 genes, which modulate susceptibility to Crohn's disease (CD).
The goals of the presented study were to investigate the effects of preoperative bile duct stenting on intraoperative bile duct cultures and postoperative outcome in patients undergoing pancreatic surgery.
The purpose of this study was to compare the periapical healing of molar root canal treatment using two instrumentation techniques.
To explore the accounts and perspectives of junior doctors who were offered an HIV test by their employing National Health Service (NHS) trust and discuss ethical issues posed by this new policy.
To understand patients' conceptions of respect and what it means to be respected by medical providers.
To examine issues of vulnerability in cancer and palliative care research obtained through qualitative interviews.
The objective of this study was to rigorously assess the long-term impacts of parental problem drinking on adult children's mental and self-perceived overall health. The study improves on previous literature by analyzing a range of mental health markers and other predictors of morbidity, by focusing on a period of adulthood that only a limited number of studies have examined, and by using data from a highly regarded and nationally representative panel study.
We assessed the use of primary social and health care due to mental health and drinking problems and the resulting costs. We also examined differences between municipalities, and analysed factors which may be associated with the variation in use and costs of these services.
For persons under age 65, compare total and out-of-pocket expenditures of those with depression to non-depressed individuals who have another major chronic disease.
To describe the clinical and immunologic characteristics of a large series of patients with systemic autoimmune diseases (SAD) associated with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
To determine the relationship between radiographic progression and clinical response for adalimumab plus methotrexate (MTX) versus either monotherapy in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in the PREMIER study.
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have an increased cardiovascular risk not completely explained by traditional cardiovascular risk factors. If the proatherogenic lipid profile observed in active and untreated RA improves by effectively treating RA without the use of a lipid-lowering agent, other nonconventional cardiovascular lipid risk factors may be implicated. We evaluated conventional lipid risk factors and lipoprotein(a) in treated patients with RA.
To use contrast-enhanced coded phase-inversion harmonic B-mode sonography to assess the acoustic enhancement of the synovial area of the knee; and to compare the data with the histological vessel density.
To analyze erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), and rheumatoid factor (RF) tests in 2 databases of consecutive patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) over 25 years between 1980 and 2004, in Finland and the USA.
To evaluate the association between occupational kneeling and degenerative meniscal tears.
To prospectively examine neuropsychiatric (NP) events and their association with health related quality of life (HRQOL) over time in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
COBRA combination therapy is well known and has uncontested efficacy in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, it is infrequently applied in Dutch clinical practice. Based on qualitative research on opinions of physicians and patients towards COBRA therapy, our study describes the development and pilot testing of an implementation package to facilitate prescription and use of COBRA therapy in early RA.
The 6-minute walk test (6MWT) is an important prognostic tool in various cardiovascular diseases and has been considered as a surrogate endpoint. However, conflicting results have been reported in systemic sclerosis (SSc). Our objective was to evaluate the relationships of the 6-min walking distance (6MWD) and organ damage in SSc.
To analyze clinical and serological characteristics of subjects with scleroderma renal crisis (SRC) in Italian patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc).
To test the efficacies of a strategy for preventing tuberculosis (TB) in Indian patients with inflammatory rheumatic diseases (IRD) treated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibitor.
To evaluate disease course and clinical usefulness in some categories of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) by applying newly developed Wallace definitions of remission off drugs.
To (1) estimate the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of children with childhood-onset systemic lupus erythematosus (cSLE) and compare it to that of normative cohorts; (2) assess the relationship of HRQOL with cSLE disease activity and damage; and (3) determine the effects of changes of disease activity on HRQOL.
To determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) medications in a real-world environment for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), and ankylosing spondylitis (AS) using the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ).
To determine if there is a difference between male and female patients in their perceived control of osteoarthritis (OA) symptoms at the time of joint replacement surgery, as measured by the Arthritis Helplessness Index (AHI), and how this helplessness affects surgical outcomes at 1 year.
To assess the effect of golimumab (human monoclonal antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha) plus methotrexate (MTX) on selected inflammatory biomarkers, and to determine if these effects predict clinical response in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
We sought evidence of association of candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) within the growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) axis, largely selected on the basis of functional data available at the time of our study, with adult bone mass.
Digital ulcers are the most frequent vascular manifestations of systemic sclerosis (SSc). Clinical features of patients with prior or current digital ulcers have not been extensively described. This cross-sectional analysis of a large multicenter cohort compared the characteristics of SSc patients with prior or current digital ulcers with those never affected.
To assess the validity of self-reports by patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc) of 5 common, chronic conditions (hypertension, diabetes, cancer, depression, and osteoarthritis/back pain) as compared to chart review.
To investigate the distribution of joint involvement in a cohort of patients with very recent onset arthritis and describe the disease characteristics in these patients.
To compare an ultrasonographic (US) scoring system of salivary glands with scintigraphy and salivary gland biopsy, in order to evaluate its diagnostic value in primary Sjögren's syndrome (SS).
To investigate brain involvement in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc).
To evaluate the seroprevalence of hepatitis B (HBV) and C (HCV) in patients living in France with recent-onset polyarthritis suggesting rheumatoid arthritis.
Using high resolution computed tomography (HRCT), to assess the lung involvement outcome after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant (AHSCT) in patients with scleroderma (systemic sclerosis, SSc).
Dendritic cells localized at the adventitia-media border of the normal medium-sized arteries play a pivotal role in the initiation of giant cell arteritis (GCA). These cells express a singular surface receptor profile, including a series of Toll-like receptors (TLR). Ligands of TLR-4 promote activation and differentiation of adventitial dendritic cells and are directly implicated in the pathogenesis of GCA. We aimed to assess the potential implication of the TLR4-(+896 A/G) gene polymorphism in the susceptibility to GCA.
To examine tobacco farmers' attitudes toward tobacco control, public health, and tobacco manufacturers in order to determine the extent to which rapidly changing economic conditions have influenced North Carolina tobacco farmer attitudes in ways that may provide tobacco control advocates with new opportunities to promote tobacco control policies in tobacco-dependent US communities.
To describe the use of chiropractic care by urban and rural residents in Washington state with musculoskeletal diagnoses, all of whom have insurance coverage for this care. The analyses investigate whether restricting the analyses to insured individuals attenuates previously reported differences in the prevalence of chiropractic use between urban and rural residents as well as whether differences in provider availability or patient cost-sharing explain the difference in utilization.
To compare rural classification systems on their implications for estimating Veterans Administration (VA) utilization.
To develop a representative geographic profile of the CNA workforce, focusing on paths leading to present job.
To examine rural women's perspectives on how living in a rural area impacts issues surrounding pregnancy prevention for their daughters and parent-child communication regarding pregnancy prevention.
The purpose of this study was to describe non-metropolitan community pharmacy sites in Wisconsin, the provision of DTS at these sites, and to identify factors associated with provision of DTS.
The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of registered nurses' certifications and years of experience on comfort level in emergencies.
This study reports the baseline knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and personal practices of health care professionals regarding colorectal cancer (CRC) screening in the High Plains Research Network (HPRN) of rural Colorado prior to a community-based educational intervention. It also examines the association between health care staff members' knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and personal practices for CRC screening and patient screening levels by practice.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact on readmission rates of a multifaceted inpatient psychiatry approach (MIPA) offered in a rural hospital.
The aim of this study is to compare the ratio analysis of key operational and financial performance measures of for-profit RRCs to those of private, non-profit RRCs.
To determine the prevalence of disabling conditions, including cognitive impairment, among the very elderly in a rural setting to guide clinicians in their care.
To compare the costs of parent-only and family-based group interventions for childhood obesity delivered through Cooperative Extension Services in rural communities.
To evaluate effects of PZIR on control of glycemia in cats with newly diagnosed or poorly controlled diabetes mellitus.
Clinical variables, urine concentrating ability, proteinuria, and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) index will be predictive of cats at risk of developing azotemia within 12 months.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of repeated arthrocentesis on synovial fluid cytology in healthy dogs.
Describe a series of dogs with 1 or more idiopathic eosinophilic gastrointestinal masses (IEGM) to better characterize the clinical features, treatment, and prognosis.
That a causative mutation for HCM in the British Shorthair (BSH), Norwegian Forest (NWF), Siberian, Sphynx, or MC cats would be identified in the exonic and splice site regions of 1 of 8 genes associated with human familial HCM.
To evaluate the effectiveness of 2 doses of rhTSH.
(1) Prednisolone monotherapy is a successful immunosuppressive modality in the treatment of SRMA; (2) protein markers are useful in identifying the potential for relapse.
To describe the clinical, electroencephalographic, imaging, and histopathologic features in poodles with polymicrogyria.
Peritoneal D-dimer concentration can be used to assess peritoneal fibrinolytic activity in horses with severe gastrointestinal (GI) disorders and altered peritoneal fluid.
Exenatide will decrease plasma glucose and increase insulin concentrations in alpacas.
We hypothesized that Treg percentages would be increased in dogs with cancer and that Treg percentages would be higher in dogs with certain types of cancer.
The expression of SRCR genes in peripheral blood cells have the potential to be cardiac biomarkers of heart failure in dogs with chronic mitral valvular insufficiency (CMVI).
Hypothyroidism influences GFR in dogs. The objective of this study was to assess GFR in hypothyroid dogs before implementation of thyroxine supplementation and after re-establishing euthyroidism.
To determine if serum cTnI concentrations in cattle can be used to differentiate pericarditis from other cardiac disorders and noncardiac thoracic diseases.
The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the accuracy of a validated ACTH immunoluminometric assay (ILMA) for differentiating between ADHAC and AIHAC.
Determine whether a low-protein test diet with soy as its main protein source results in better scores than a control diet with the same composition but with poultry as its main protein source in dogs with CPSS.
Presenting complaints and clinical signs of this disease are vague and early diagnosis increases survival time.
That esophageal transit in dogs, as measured by a barium esophagram, is not affected by body position.
(1) HPA axis dysfunction occurs in hospitalized neonatal foals, and is characterized by inappropriately low basal serum cortisol concentration or inadequate cortisol response to exogenous adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH); (2) hospitalized foals with HPA axis dysfunction have more severe disease and are less likely to survive than hospitalized foals with normal HPA axis function.
Circulatory parameters and diurnal rhythm are linked to clinical signs in cardiac diseases. LAP also exhibits a diurnal rhythm in dogs with MR.
To document the feasibility, describe the techniques, and determine the reliability of 2D speckle tracking (2DST) for characterization of LV radial and circumferential wall motion in horses.
To document the genetic background and investigate the potential mode of inheritance of IHPSS in Irish Wolfhounds.
To investigate association of genetic loci with CRP levels and risk of coronary heart disease.
To evaluate the utility of contemporary biomarkers for predicting cardiovascular risk when added to conventional risk factors.
To determine the patterns of use and rates of complications and financial charges associated with BMP use in spinal fusion nationally.
With advances in medicine, the subjective assessment of patients on hemodialysis regarding their quality of life (QOL) is gaining importance. Clinicians cannot rely solely on objective markers, such as the rates of complications and mortality, when evaluating responses to dialysis. In clinical settings, laboratory values are used as measures of patients' health. However, the relationship between clinical laboratory values and QOL has not been elucidated yet. Therefore, the present study aimed to define the relationship of laboratory values and patient attributes to the QOL of outpatients on hemodialysis in order to obtain basic data for reevaluating nursing support for patients on hemodialysis in the future.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a regular family visiting program, as an auditory, affective, and tactile stimulation, on the consciousness level of comatose head injury patients.
Postnatal depression is one of the life-threatening events faced by women. As the factors associated with postnatal depression have not been investigated fully in Japan, we studied the factors associated with postnatal depression.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a support program for the stress management of women undergoing fertility treatment to reduce stress related to infertility and treatment.
Patient education that enhances one's self-management ability is of utmost importance for improving patient outcomes in chronic diseases. We developed a 12 month self-management education program for type 2 diabetes, based on a previous 6 month program, and examined its efficacy.
To investigate changes in dry eye symptoms and diagnostic test values after cataract surgery and to address factors that might influence those symptoms and test results.
To evaluate the characteristics of fluid accumulation in the uveitic stage of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease using high resolution optical coherence tomography (OCT3).
To evaluate the effect of different doses of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on diffuse diabetic macular edema.
To investigate the immediate and long-term outcomes of Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) implantation with silicone tube ligation and removable external stents.
To analyze innervated myotendinous cylinders (IMCs) in the extraocular muscles (EOMs) of normal subjects and strabismic patients.
This study was designed to evaluate the usefulness of three-phase CT to characterize the hemodynamics of vascular lesions in the head and neck area.
Although three-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (3D TOF-MRA) is used frequently as a follow-up tool to assess the response of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) after radiosurgery, the diagnostic accuracy of 3D TOF-MRA is not well known. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of contrast-enhanced 3D TOF-MRA at 3.0 Tesla for the detection of residual AVMs.
To test the effects of heart rate, body mass index (BMI) and noise level on interscan and interobserver variability of coronary artery calcium (CAC) scoring on a prospective electrocardiogram (ECG)-triggered 64-slice CT.
To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of a dual-source computed tomography (DSCT) coronary angiography, with a particular focus on the effect of heart rate and calcifications.
This study was designed to assess the usefulness of transperineal ultrasonography (US) for the determination of imperforate anus (IA) type.
To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of a transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) with N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA) for the treatment of arterial esophageal bleeding.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and therapeutic efficacy of percutaneous radiofrequency (RF) ablation for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) adjacent to the gallbladder with the use of internally cooled electrodes.
We wanted to assess the long-term results of cyst ablation with using N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA) and iodized oil in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and symptomatic cysts.
To evaluate the incidence, predictive factors, and clinical outcomes of angiographically negative acute arterial upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding.
To assess the clinical outcomes of the transcatheter microcoil embolization in patients with active lower gastrointestinal (LGI) bleeding in the small bowel, as well as to compare the mortality rates between the two groups based on the visualization or non-visualization of the bleeding focus determined by an angiography.
To develop an effective gene transfer system for Streptomyces ipomoeae, the causative agent of soil rot disease of sweet potatoes.
To compare in vitro the inhibitory activity of four bacteriocin-producing Escherichia coli to a well-characterized panel of Salmonella strains, recently isolated from clinical cases in Switzerland.
To study the degradation of phorate by a bacterium isolated from phorate-contaminated sites.
To investigate hydrogen peroxide production by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and to determine the key factors involved.
The level of genetic diversity and relationships between the specific genotypes and the distribution of virulence determinants among Enterococcus faecalis strains isolated from patients hospitalized in different wards of two hospitals were investigated.
Construction of an industrial brewer's yeast strain, which could improve foam stability and reduce calorific values of beer.
To produce high laccase activities from the white-rot fungus Fomes fomentarius.
To provide with a quick method for qualitative detection, in less than three days, of Salmonella enterica and Listeria monocytogenes in fresh fruit and vegetables.
The aim of the study was to isolate the endophytic fungi from Acer ginnala and screen isolates rich in gallic acid.
To determine the prevalence and expression of metallo-beta-lactamases (MBL)-encoding genes in Aeromonas species recovered from natural water reservoirs in southeastern Brazil.
The aim of this study was to extract information on cell number and colony volume dynamics of Salmonella Typhimurium colonies.
To identify the phenolic compounds in the leaves of Sphagnum papillosum and examine their antibacterial activity at pH appropriate for the undissociated forms.
To evaluate a new dual priming oligonucleotide (DPO)-based multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for detection of six sexually transmitted pathogens, including Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Mycoplasma genitalium, Mycoplasma hominis, Ureaplasma urealyticum and Trichomonas vaginalis.
Sheep are important carriers of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) in several countries. However, there are a few reports about ovine STEC in American continent.
To isolate plant growth-promoting bacterium from Western Ghat forests in India.
To investigate the effect of modulation of transcription factors on the fermentation properties of Saccharomyces cerevisiae industrial strains and to evaluate whether overexpression and co-overexpression of transcription factors would result in higher ethanol yield.
To develop a convenient and accurate method for estimating the rrn operon copy number (Y(rrn)) in cells of pure prokaryotic cultures based on quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).
A laboratory assay for comparative characterization of various faecal matrices with respect to faecal indicator organism (FIO) release using, artificial rain water.
The objective of this work was to investigate the lipase production by a newly isolated Penicillium sp., using experimental design technique, in submerged fermentation using a medium based on peptone, yeast extract, NaCl and olive oil, as well as to characterize the crude enzymatic extracts obtained.
This study aims to maximize the yield of gamma-linolenic acid by a filamentous fungus, Mucor rouxii, using low cost production by solid-state fermentation.
Aspergillus fumigatus is the most common cause of airborne mould infections in immunocompromised patients worldwide. Our aim was to develop a method to identify agents that inhibit siderophore biosynthesis because this pathway is unique to the fungus and is essential for virulence.
To investigate whether the entomopathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas entomophila can synthesize hydrogen cyanide (HCN).
To describe ethics consultations at a single institution that has a mandatory ethics consultation policy.
To assess interrater reliability of the New York Heart Association/World Health Organization functional classification as applied by clinicians (defined as both physicians and nurses in this article) to patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
Chronic adenosine A2b receptor stimulation has been shown to prevent ventricular remodelling after myocardial infarction (MI). We hypothesized that this effect is due to the inhibition of cardiac myocyte apoptosis in the myocardium remote from the infarction.
LIM domain only 2 (LMO2) has been identified as a novel oncogene associated with carcinogenesis and better prognosis in several malignant tumors. We investigate the involvement of LMO2 in pancreatic cancer.
The effect of geldanamycin (GA) on the brain is poorly understood. The induction of specific heat shock protein (HSP) isoforms by GA has not been studied in detail. The aim of this work was to identify the HSP70 genes that become up-regulated in the mouse brain after GA administration.
The adult brain is capable of neurogenesis after cerebral ischemia. We investigated the presence of new neural precursors after transient middle cerebral artery ischemia adult rats.
The discovery of IL-7R(alpha) polymorphisms implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis has highlighted the importance of interleukin 7 (IL-7) in central nervous system diseases. Hypoxia affects neurological disease states in part by modulating expression of many early and late response genes. The present work used cultured PC12 cells to investigate the effect of hypoxia on IL-7 expression.
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) is considered as an indicator of inflammatory processes, and it has a prognostic value in the management of specific neoplastic diseases. It also responds to surgical intervention. There is very little data about the alteration of ESR in patients with brain tumors and information on its course after intracranial tumor surgery is completely lacking.
To investigate possible correlation between Nurr1 and Ret on inducing expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in neural precursor cells.
Reproducibility is an essential strength of any diagnostic technique for cross-sectional and longitudinal works. To determine in vivo short-term comparatively, the test-retest reliability of magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of the brain was compared using the manufacturer's software package and the widely used linear combination of model (LCModel) technique.
Arteriovenous malformation (AVM) of the mandible is a rare but potentially life-threatening entity. Traditional treatment involved complex surgical procedures that usually failed to completely cure the malformation without disfigurement and functional difficulties. We report our experience in transarterial and transvenous embolizations of mandibular AVMs using different embolization agents and discuss the potential use of Onyx and new detachable-tip microcatheters.
Cervical dystonia (CD) is the most common form of adult-onset focal dystonia, and botulinum toxin A (BoNT-A) has become the first-line treatment for this condition.
A reproducible brain tumor model using experimental animals is required to study biological behavior and develop more potent antineoplastic drugs and effective therapeutic modalities. In this work, we attempted to establish diffuse leptomeningeal gliomatosis in the rat by intracarotid injection of C6 glioma cells.
Septal area is a limbic structure that is involved in the regulation of several autonomic, learning-related and behavioral functions. Participation of this area in various physiologic functions is indicative of its extensive connections with different brain areas. It contains two major divisions: lateral septum (LS) and medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MS/DBB). In the present work, we examined topographical distribution of projecting neurons to these divisions and quantitatively verified them.
After lesion of a peripheral nerve in neonatal mammals, motoneurons undergo a cell death. We wanted to ascertain if early surgery could influence such post-axotomy motoneuronal death and improve the functional outcome. In this study, we investigated the functional and anatomical results after immediate and delayed repair of the lower trunk of brachial plexus (BP) sectioned at birth in rats.
Meningiomas are benign intracranial tumors growing from the arachnoid cap cells. Although their behavior is usually benign, they tend to recur even after total removal, and their recurrence is dependent on different aspects.
The aim of this study was to investigate the ability of topiramate (TPM) to prevent neural injury in a rabbit model of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The effect of TPM on cerebral vasospasm was also evaluated.
This paper profiles a study that explored nursing students' information and communication technology competence and confidence. It presents selected findings that focus on students' attitudes towards information and communication technology as an educational methodology and their perceptions of its relevance to clinical practice.
To evaluate the effects of education on nursing students' knowledge and attitudes towards older people in Greece.
The study aimed to evaluate the usability of DVD simulations, the impact on student learning, clinical placement orientation, and the potential for using DVD simulations to reduce the clinical placement burden on the health care system with nursing students.
To determine the frequency and types of potential interactions between vitamins and medications in children arriving at a large tertiary, pediatric emergency department. We also compared family characteristics of children with potential interactions with those of children with no potential interactions, in order to determine children at a higher risk.
Solid pseudo-papillary tumors (SPT) are rare pancreatic neoplasms of low-malignant potential occurring mainly in young women. The purpose of this report is to describe our experience with laparoscopic management of these tumors with 4-year follow-up.
Continuous epidural anaesthesia attenuates perioperative stress and avoids the need for systemic opioids. In addition, it may prevent the need for postoperative mechanical ventilation. The aim of the study was to prospectively follow the perioperative course of young infants treated with continuous thoracic/lumbar epidural anaesthesia for major surgery.
Historically, the majority of patients with colonic atresia have been managed by ostomy creation at the time of initial operation; conversely, we have tended to treat the atresia with resection and anastomosis. The purpose of this study is to determine the rate of concomitant Hirschsprung's disease and to identify potential morbidity associated with primary repair.
Recurrent tracheoesophageal fistula (RTF) complicates 5-11% of cases of children treated at birth for esophageal atresia with inferior tracheoesophageal fistula (ITF), and it represents an important problem of respiratory morbility and mortality. Surgical correction of RTF is complex with high incidence of recurrence. The aim of this work is to demonstrate the usefulness of large vascularized pleural flap in the treatment of RTF and the prevention of recurrences.
To describe a laparoscopy-assisted retroperitoneal pyeloplasty (LARP) and results of initial experience.
Diaphragmatic injuries have been reported to be a predictor of serious associated injuries in trauma and a marker of severity. Because of its rarity in children, the diagnosis is often delayed for months and years, due to overshadowing injuries. Perhaps due to the elasticity of their tissues, traumatic diaphragmatic rupture is uncommon in children. The problem remains a challenging clinical entity and the description of such type of injuries in children remains scarce in the literature. Most of the cases are described along with associated injuries; presence of isolated diaphragmatic injuries in children is unusual. The present study highlights the presentation, diagnosis and management of all of the cases admitted with traumatic diaphragmatic injuries in a single pediatric surgical center.
Mechanical complications in tunneled indwelling central venous catheters (CVCs) often involve a risk of displacement. Fixation procedures are, therefore, of primary importance. We prospectively evaluated the incidence of CVC-related mechanical and infectious complications observed in devices fixated with the Sri Paran technique.
During pull-through for Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR), the assessment of innervation is mainly based on the presence of ganglion cells when conventional Hematoxylin and Eosin (HE) staining is used. In hypoganglionosis, the evaluation is difficult. We adapted a standardized methodology for the examination of resected bowel after HSCR surgery, using the technique described by Moolenbeek on rodent intestine and later by Meier-Ruge in children. We have analysed the entire innervation of surgically resected bowels and compared the results with the follow up of patients.
The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of iatrogenic gastroschisis on pulmonary hypoplasia in fetal rabbits with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH).
Sexual dysfunctions are thought to be common in the population. However, the majority of research on sexual dysfunctions has focused on male problems. Consequently, women's sexual function is poorly understood. This article aimed to (a) provide a historical overview of the knowledge development of female sexual function, (b) describe the current state of knowledge pertaining to sexual problems in women, and (c) discuss implications for the assessment of sexual problems in women.
This study aimed to understand the lived experience of voice simulation with the novice nurse and to describe the impact on the nurse's empathy and desire to develop a therapeutic relationship.
This study aimed to determine the rate of falls and their relationship with sociodemographic and clinical factors in a psychiatric institution in Beijing, China.
Insomnia is one of the most common symptoms seen in both primary and psychiatric care. Sleep hypnotics and benzodiazepines are the drugs of choice for insomnia but are not appropriate for all patients.
This study aimed to explore nurses' (N= 22) and physicians' (N= 5) educational needs in the context of their perceived seclusion and restraint-related mode of action and need for support.
This study aimed to investigate the attitudes of Australian psychiatric triage and crisis clinicians toward those with a diagnosis of personality disorder.
This study aimed to assess the discriminative validity of the Brazilian version of the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and of its reduced version (PHQ-2).
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of load type (elastic, viscous, or mass) on muscle activation and co-contraction during resisted forward reaching in the paretic and nonparetic arms after stroke.
The purpose of this study was to assess convergent validity of the Step Test (ST) and the knee extension component of the Upright Motor Control Test (UMCe) as measures of paretic-limb loading and of the Repetitive Reach Test (RR) as a measure of weight transfer in the first 6 months after stroke.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of manual therapy and exercise, with or without the addition of cervical traction, on pain, function, and disability in patients with cervical radiculopathy.
Spasticity (hypertonicity) is a frequent problem that can develop after stroke and can lead to a number of secondary complications, such as contractures and pain. Consequently, many rehabilitation resources are used in treating the condition and its secondary complications. At present, the clinical assessment of spasticity incorporates descriptive scales of resistance to passive movement, but the use of a neurophysiological measure of muscle activity levels has been advocated. This case report focuses on the diagnosis of spasticity through the use of a neurophysiological measure.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term effectiveness of high-intensity laser therapy (HILT) versus ultrasound (US) therapy in the treatment of SAIS.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the Vo(2)peak measured during an incremental treadmill test is a true reflection of the maximum oxygen uptake ((.)Vo(2)max) in children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory.
After studying this article, the participant should be able to: 1. Discuss the clinical features of Marjolin's ulcer. 2. Identify the risk factors for the development of Marjolin's ulcer. 3. Develop a surgical management plan for the treatment of Marjolin's ulcer.
Its aims were to improve the quality of National Health Service (NHS) patient care and to assist dentists to perform well during Dental Reference Service practice visits.
To quantify the way that oral diseases affect the lives of homeless and vulnerable people in Swansea, using the short-form Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP-14).
The aims of this pilot study were to determine the prevalence of head, face and dental injuries sustained by schoolboys while playing cricket and to compare the prevalence of those injuries in England and Australia.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether recent changes in the National Health Service (NHS) dental contract may have caused increased anxiety and concern among vocational dental practitioners (VDPs).
The aim of this in vitro study was to investigate the effect of ageing on both the hardness and colour change of two soft liners following accelerated ageing.
To estimate the costs associated with relapse in a pan-European naturalistic setting.
Anxiety a core feature of panic disorder, is linked to function of the amygdala. Volume alterations in the brain of patients with panic disorder have previously been reported, but there has been no report of amygdala volume association with anxiety.
A new scale has been developed to assess the self-recoverability in the daily life of people with schizophrenia. Self-recoverability in daily life includes coping with stress events and taking care of one's mental and physical health. The new scale, called Self-Recoverability in Daily Life (SRDL), is a semi-structured instrument with 10 items. The aim of the present study was therefore to test the scale accordingly.
The endogenous circadian clock generates daily variations of physiological and behavior functions such as the endogenous interindividual component (morningness/eveningness preferences). Also, mood disorders are associated with a breakdown in the organization of ultradian rhythm. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to assessed the association between chronotype and the level of depressive symptoms in a healthy sample population. Furthermore, the components of the depression scale that best discriminate the chronotypes were determined.
Insight in schizophrenia is considered to have a multidimensional construct, and cognitive insight is thought to be an important dimension of insight: an ability to evaluate and correct one's own distorted beliefs and misinterpretations. The Beck Cognitive Insight Scale (BCIS) was developed to measure cognitive insight, and studies have shown that cognitive insight is associated with several clinical features in schizophrenia. The aim of the present study was to develop a Japanese version of the BCIS (BCIS-J) and assess the psychometric properties of this instrument.
To investigate the correlation between the incidence of post-stroke depression (PSD) and the levels of substance P (SP) in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether thyroid hormonal changes during menopause may affect the development and the course of major depressive disorder.
The Cambridge Depersonalization Scale (CDS) is an instrument that has obtained reliability and validity in some countries for use in detecting depersonalization disorder under clinical conditions, but not yet in Japan under non-psychiatric conditions. The purposes of this study were to develop a Japanese version of the CDS (J-CDS) and to examine its reliability and validity as an instrument for screening depersonalization disorder under non-clinical conditions.
Perospirone is classified as a second-generation antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia. Perospirone binds with high affinity to serotonin 5-HT2A receptors and dopamine D2 receptors. There are no reports of clinical comparisons of perospirone and risperidone in multicenter studies. To clarify the clinical traits of perospirone in the treatment of schizophrenia, the clinical efficacies and side-effects of perospirone and risperidone were compared in a randomized clinical multicenter trial.
Although somatic diseases in psychiatric patients are increasing with the increase of the aged population, psychiatric wards in general hospitals in Japan have progressively been decreasing. The purpose of this cross-sectional study was to clarify whether psychiatric beds in general hospitals play sufficient roles in medical comorbidities of psychiatric patients or not.
To clarify differences in objective activity levels between children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and those with pervasive developmental disorders (PDD) and hyperactivity.
There have been some studies on the feasibility of discharging mentally ill inpatients from mental hospitals. The purpose of the present study was to investigate how a psychiatrist judges whether an inpatient can be discharged.
Recent neuroimaging studies support functional and structural alterations in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), particularly on the left side in patients with major depressive disorders (MDD). The aim of the present study was to examine the biochemical characteristics of left DLPFC as measured on proton ((1)H) magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in patients with drug-naïve first-episode MDD and a healthy control group. A second aim was to assess the effect of antidepressant treatment on the metabolites of DLPFC.
The aim of the present study was to examine the discriminative effects of sociodemographic, individual, family, peers, and school life factors on Internet addiction in Taiwanese adolescents.
Chronic fatigue syndrome patients often have comorbid psychiatric disorders such as major depressive disorders and anxiety disorders. However, the outcomes of chronic fatigue syndrome and the comorbid psychiatric disorders and the interactions between them are unknown. Therefore, a two-year prospective follow-up study was carried out on chronic fatigue syndrome patients with comorbid psychiatric disorders.
To examine the effect of neuropsychiatric symptoms on longitudinal changes in the quality of life (QOL) of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD).
Previous studies have reported that the incidence of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) in patients with depression is higher than in the general population. We examined the risk factors to predict OSAS in mood disorder patients with depressive symptoms.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the association between cognitive performance and psychiatric and medical comorbidity in major depression.
Accumulating evidence from Caucasian patients has shown that depression, bipolar and anxiety disorders are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), but reports in the Asian population are limited, and age effect is rarely investigated. This population-based study was carried out to examine and compare the CVD comorbidities among patients with mood and anxiety disorders in different age groups.
The objectives of the present study were to (i) evaluate the prevalence of children and adolescents who have engaged in intentional self-harm using a sharp object; and (ii) investigate the relationship between self-harm with sharp objects and depressive tendencies or dissociative tendencies.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36-amino acid peptide that is widely distributed in the brain, adrenal medulla, and sympathetic nervous system. Several lines of evidence suggest a possible involvement of the NPY system in the physiological effects of several classes of abused substances including alcohol, phencyclidine, cocaine, and marijuana and in endogenous psychosis. Accordingly, it was hypothesized that the NPY system may also be involved in methamphetamine dependence or psychosis.
The author distinguishes among the various forms of hastened death. Psychiatrists may be consulted when patients ask to hasten their death in any of the ways described, contrasted, and illustrated in this article.
This review places particular emphasis on the current knowledge of effective treatment of TBI symptoms, and proposes directions for future research.
The authors investigated the effects of postoperative sedation on the development of delirium in patients undergoing cardiac-valve procedures.
The authors sought to determine the prevalence of diagnosed and undiagnosed delirium in patients who fell during their hospital stay.
The authors evaluated whether a multifaceted intervention conducted by a psychiatric consultation-liaison nurse could reduce the incidence of major depression in rheumatology inpatients and diabetes outpatients with a high level of case complexity.
The authors asked whether delirium and its duration are associated with higher mortality in a 3-month follow-up period.
The authors describe mood abnormalities seen in a case series of patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD).
The authors investigated the phenomenology of delirium severity as measured with the Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale among 441 older patients (age 65 and older) admitted with delirium in post-acute care.
The authors sought to derive valid factors from the Delirium Rating Scale (DRS), Revised -98.
The authors investigated the effects of the critical-care hospitalization for this condition on well-being of patients' families.
The purpose of the study was to determine the prevalence of pain, depression, and their co-occurrence among gynecology patients, and to examine how pain and depression are associated with additional comorbid mental disorders.
The authors investigated the psychological impact of this disorder, about which very little is known.
The authors draw attention to this disorder because delayed diagnosis and misdiagnosis are common and can contribute to excessive morbidity.
There have been only two cases presented in the literature postulating benzodiazepine-withdrawal as a possible trigger for malignant catatonia. Here, the authors present a case of catatonia likely caused by abrupt benzodiazepine discontinuation; they also discuss neurobiological mechanisms relating to catatonia.
The authors report on the first known case of valacyclovir-induced psychosis with symptoms of mania in a young woman with no previous psychiatric history.
The authors propose that bleeding as a result of SSRI use may also be caused by other mechanisms.
This study examined the quality of life correlates of family caregiving and caregiving strain in a large national epidemiological sample.
Evaluate the reliability and validity of the Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form version 2 (SF-12v2) in the 2003-2004 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS).
Type D personality has been associated with impaired health status in chronic heart failure (CHF), but other psychological factors may also be important.
To determine whether non-Type D patients with low positive affect and Type D patients report lower health status, compared with non-Type D patients with high positive affect at 12-month follow-up in chronic heart failure.
Determine age and gender differences and interaction effects in domain-specific life satisfaction in the German population and examine to which degree depressive and anxiety symptoms are associated with life satisfaction in addition to sociodemographic variables, and which domains are affected.
To investigate whether people with long term conditions, whatever their specific nature, need to be assessed and treated for the full range of mental, physical and social problems. Main question investigated: that rheumatoid arthritis and schizophrenia will be associated with significantly greater impairment across the subscores of the SF36 scale than in reference general population samples. Specific hypothesis tested: while rheumatoid arthritis and schizophrenia will impair both physical and mental functioning, when comparing the two groups there will be a greater difference between the physical component scores than there will be between the mental/emotional component scores of the short form health survey (SF-36).
To link the concepts underlying the Stroke-Specific Quality of Life (SS-QOL) scale with those of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF), which are two different perspectives to consider functioning and health. This will facilitate the understanding of the relationships between the SS-QOL and the ICF. One of the purposes of the ICF is to be used as a common terminology and a clinical problem-solving tool in clinical and research settings. The ICF concept of functioning can also serve as the basis for the operationalization of the health-related quality of life. Thus, efforts should be made to allow the concurrent use of the ICF and health measurements in both clinical and research settings.
Health related quality of life (HRQoL) was characterized among patients with neuroendocrine tumor (NET) and compared with the general Norwegian population.
Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measures typically do not incorporate patients' preferences for domains such as physical, emotional, functional and social/family well-being, which may compromise precision.
To review published studies regarding the use, feasibility and psychometric performance of the schedule for the evaluation of individual quality of life-direct weighting (SEIQoL-DW) in clinical research.
We provide preliminary psychometric results concerning the use of a modified FAMCARE scale, adapted for patient use, to assess satisfaction with outpatient care in advanced stage cancer patients.
To evaluate the psychometrics of the SF-36 Health Survey among Turkish and Moroccan ethnic minority populations in the Netherlands and to compare the results to those based on the indigenous Dutch population.
To evaluate the Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) of American Indians with diabetes, hypertension, or both conditions using the SF36; and to explore how the HRQoL is associated with help seeking among American Indians with and without these chronic conditions.
This study examined the psychometric properties and the replicability of De Vellis's (1993) Parent Health Locus of Control (PHLOC) scales in an Italian sample.
To quantitatively assess steatosis by a morphometric method and to study its relationship with other histological features of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). This was a comparative descriptive study. The study was carried out in the Department of Histopathology, Army Medical College, Rawalpindi, Pakistan, from March 2006 to March 2007.
Ingested corrosive material is a major pediatric emergency all over the world. The corrosive material can cause damage to the digestive tract, ranging from minor injury to strictures, and sometimes even death. We aimed to review the pattern of corrosive ingestion in children who had been admitted to Aseer Central Hospital in the Southwestern region of Saudi Arabia.
Gastric and colorectal cancers are the most common gastrointestinal malignancies in Iran. We aim to compare the survival rates and prognostic factors between these two cancers.
Information about functional outcome and quality of life after esophagectomy and esophageal reconstruction (ER) for the treatment of esophageal cancer, as evaluated by the patients themselves is limited. We aimed to study the post-surgical outcome of such patients to detect for the development of any complications that may arise from the surgery as well as to evaluate their quality of life following the surgery.
To investigate the possible association between the polymorphism of the CTLA-4 exon 1 +49 A/G and susceptibility to Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) in the Tunisian population.
To examine the liver size in Saudi children and adolescents.
Wider adoption of laparoscopic appendicectomy (LA) is limited by problems in securing the appendiceal base as well as the cost and the duration compared with the open procedure. The objective of this study was to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a new method for securing the appendiceal base in LA, so as to make the entire procedure simpler and cheaper, and hence, more popular.
The published data on Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) prevalence and its relationship with abdominal pain in Saudi Arabia is scarce. This study was carried out to determine the prevalence of H. pylori and its relationship with chronic recurrent abdominal pain (RAP) among school students in Makkah City, Saudi Arabia.
Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic drug, has been found to be effective in the management of patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The aim of this study was to test whether the co administration of vitamin-E with amiodarone can reduce amiodarone-induced liver damage.
To determine the epidemiology of Crohn's disease (CD) in an outpatient clinic and compare it with data previously reported from different centers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and outside.
Acute appendicitis is one of the most common acute intraabdominal affections seen in surgical departments, which can be treated easily if an accurate diagnosis is made in time. Otherwise, delay in diagnosis and treatment can lead to diffuse peritonitis.
History of ascariasis is known to stretch back many centuries. One quarter of the world's population is known to be infected by ascariasis. It is endemic in various parts of the Indian subcontinent and the gangetic plain of West Bengal is one of them. We aimed to study the various types of clinical presentations, complications and different diagnostic tools and to assess various options for the management of biliary ascariasis.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection causes peptic ulceration and gastric adenocarcinoma. In Iraq, gastric cancer is rare. We investigated whether infected adults had the antral-predominant pattern of H. pylori-associated gastritis, which does not predispose to cancer.
Bile leak is not uncommon after liver surgeries. There is no adequate method described to prevent this morbid complication.
The Northern Sweden MONICA project 1986-2004 demonstrated a marked increase in average body mass, an unchanged prevalence of diabetes, and a decrease in myocardial infarctions and lately also in stroke. This study estimates the relative importance of time-trends in lifestyle on average waist and hip circumference on a population level.
To investigate the impact of nutritional status on self-reported as well as performance-based indicators of physical function in a rural elderly population in Bangladesh.
On account of the increasing worldwide problems associated with overweight and obesity, the aim of the present study was to examine BMI change over 5 years in relation to different lifestyle-, demographic- and psychosocial work-related factors.
A salutogenetic approach may play an important role in developing adolescent understanding of health. On the basis of sense of coherence the study examined the relationships between self-assessed physical fitness and actual performed cardiorespiratory fitness.
Health policy decisions should be based on national social preferences. In the absence of a set of Danish health preferences, patient outcome studies using the EQ-5D instrument have typically used UK health state valuations. This article describes the development of a Danish EQ-5D value set.
Parental attitudes and behaviour with regard to young people and alcohol are associated with teenagers' drinking behaviour. This study examined the association between sociodemographic factors among parents and parental attitudes and behaviour with regard to alcohol and adolescents.
To describe the consumption of snuff in a rural male population and to explore associations between snuff use and obesity.
To investigate the occurrence of the word ;;effectiveness'' in the political-administrative decision-making minutes in specialized healthcare as presented to board and council meetings by top management teams.
To compare German and Norwegian hospital doctors on 10 different aspects of job satisfaction and general life satisfaction.
To generate Danish population norms for the EQ-5D index score, stratified by age and gender.
To describe how snus use has reduced smoking among men in Sweden, and to estimate how smoking-attributable lung cancer mortality would decline in other European Union countries if they had the smoking prevalence of Sweden.
The aim of this study was to study mortality patterns in the population in different geographical locations in northern Norway on the basis of Sami population density.
Low socioeconomic status is associated with increased risk of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) in many European and North American countries. We hypothesize that the adverse impact of having IHD may also be heavier in lower socioeconomic groups and may constitute a mechanism for generating or reinforcing social inequalities in health.
The aim of this retrospective study is to compare the immediate and long-term postoperative outcomes of Lichtenstein and Kugel repair of inguinal hernia.
We describe a rare cause of posterior triangle cervical lymphadenopathy in a third decade female, outline the clinical and histopathological features and discuss excision biopsy as the investigation of choice in this age group, with lymphoma as the diagnosis of exclusion.
To evaluate the effect of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) velocity (PSAV) on prostate cancer diagnosis, Gleason score, tumor location, and cancer volume in men undergoing transperineal template-guided mapping biopsy (TTMB). PSAV has been associated with greater Gleason scores and greater prostate cancer-specific mortality.
To investigate whether survivin-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) could be induced by dendritic cells (DCs) transduced with survivin gene by adenoviral vector, and whether these CTLs would display cytotoxic activities against human urologic cancer cell lines. Survivin, a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein family, is expressed in most malignancies, but not in normal tissue.
To investigate the effect of testosterone on contractile tone of endothelium-denuded human corpus cavernosum strips. Human studies designed to examine a possible relaxant effect of testosterone on corpus cavernosal circulation are lacking.
To assess the prevalence of Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis in women experiencing chronic urinary symptoms.
To evaluate the effect of positive surgical margins in patients with muscle-invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder on survival.
To investigate the therapeutic efficacy and safety of Amlodipine alone or in combination with terazosin for the presence of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and hypertension. LUTS and hypertension often coexist in elderly men.
To investigate the mechanism of gefitinib resistance in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cells. Although epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is frequently overexpressed in RCC, gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of EGFR, has only a limited antitumor effect on RCC.
To compare the direct relaxant activity of sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil in the human corpus cavernosum (HCC) and to investigate their modulatory effects on nitric oxide (NO)-mediated responses. Phosphodiesterase (PDE)-5 inhibitors cause cavernosal smooth muscle relaxation and penile erection.
To examine the epidemiology of urolithiasis in personnel returning from deployment to Southwest Asia.
To report on the likely existing evidence about the practice of circumcision in prehistory, or at least a culture of foreskin retraction, and also the meaning of erection in Paleolithic minds. The origin of the ritual of circumcision has been lost in time. Similarly, the primitive anthropologic meaning of erection is undefined.
To assess feasibility and diagnostic performance of prostate examination through transvaginal palpation and transvaginal ultrasound in transsexual women (TSW).
To compare the effect of warm and room temperature irrigation solution on the incidence of urethral stricture during combined transurethral resection and vaporization of the prostate (CTURVP). Urethral stricture after transurethral surgery of the prostate is a bothersome complication. Warm irrigation improves the blood flow and might decrease the incidence of urethral stricture compared with the use of room temperature irrigation, which decreases the blood flow in the urethral mucosa, resulting in ischemic injury.
To determine the prevalence of urologic disease among infants hospitalized for urinary tract infections (UTIs) at our institution. The prevalence of urologic anomalies among infants (&lt;400 days old) hospitalized for UTIs has not been previously reported.
To provide insights into the likelihood that benign prostatic tissue represents a source of measurable prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after radical prostatectomy.
To characterize the mechanisms of failure and patient outcomes during complications with the use of endoscopic stapling devices, nonlocking titanium clips, and locking polymer clips during laparoscopic donor nephrectomy.
To assess the changes and sex-specific differences in urinary metabolic risk factors with time.
To define the sex prevalence of inpatient hospital discharges for pediatric patients diagnosed with upper urinary tract stone disease.
To review our experience with radical nephrectomy and inferior vena cava thrombectomy (RNIVCT) to determine the utility of preoperative embolization. Preoperative embolization has been used as an adjunctive procedure to facilitate surgical resection of complex renal tumors.
To determine the safety and efficacy of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) as monotherapy for renal stones &gt;25 mm in children.
The Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) is a widely used scale for the screening and diagnosis of erectile dysfunction (ED). Our objective was to incorporate the SHIM into our prostate cancer screening program to estimate the prevalence of ED among men screened for prostate cancer.
To determine whether prostate-specific antigen (PSA) values can distinguish those with prostate cancer (CaP) from those with histologic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) only after surgical intervention. Prostatic adenoma inevitably remains after BPH surgery; therefore, patients remain at risk of developing CaP. Although the PSA level can be used for CaP screening in this population, it might be influenced by the efficacies of different BPH procedures.
To determine the effect of lower urinary tract symptoms, including overactive bladder/urinary incontinence, on health outcomes.
To examine the association between alpha-blocker use and sexual dysfunction among men participating in a population-based cohort of men residing in Olmsted County, MN. Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in men have previously been associated with sexual dysfunction. The use of alpha-adrenergic receptor blocking agents results in an improvement in LUTS for many men. If sexual dysfunction and LUTS share a common etiology, alpha-blocker use might also be associated with a decreased risk of sexual dysfunction.
To present our experience with retrograde ureteral and/or renal access in patients with urinary diversion. Retrograde ureteral access may be indicated for treatment of malignancy, ureteroenteric anastomotic stricture disease, or nephrolithiasis, and, in patients with previous urinary diversion surgery, can be technically challenging.
To determine whether catheter traction during suprapubic prostatectomy can be beneficial in reducing intraoperative and postoperative bleeding.
To examine whether a beneficial effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on semen parameters and oxidative/antioxidant status in idiopathic male infertility exists. The production of reactive oxygen species is a normal physiologic event in various organs. However, overproduction of reactive oxygen species can be detrimental to sperm and has been associated with male infertility.
To compare the pain during anesthesia and during the no-scalpel vasectomy procedure for local infiltration anesthesia (LIA), LIA supplemented with spermatic cord block (LIA + SCB), and no needle jet anesthesia.
To perform a case-control study to test the association between metabolic syndrome features and prostate cancer. The metabolic syndrome refers to a cluster of conditions serving as risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The metabolic syndrome is prevalent in the United States, and the spectrum of specific features has been shown to differ by race and ethnicity. A number of recent reports have linked metabolic syndrome to prostate cancer; however, most studies have not had racially diverse populations to explore differences in risk.
To compare the characteristics of confirmed vs suspected cases of urogenital tuberculosis (UGTB) in a geographic region with an extremely high prevalence of pulmonary tuberculosis. UGTB is notoriously difficult to diagnose.
To describe our experience and 1-year follow-up of 3 patients with circumcaval ureter (CU) treated laparoscopically, with the introduction of a new stenting method and review of the published data. Because of its rarity, more reports are needed to advocate more comprehensive knowledge about the preferred surgical technique for the treatment of CU.
To study the clinical and bacteriologic picture of acute prostatitis caused by extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Escherichia coli after transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy.
To report our experience with vaginal reconstruction with the deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap. Vaginal reconstruction can be accomplished with a variety of flaps, depending on the defect. The use of perforator flaps, however, is still uncommon.
To present the operative outcomes of the first natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) transvaginal nephrectomy.
Two Korean nationwide studies showed that metallo-beta-lactamases (MBLs)-producing-Pseudomonas spp. are not rare. The aim of this study was to assess the trends of MBL-producing isolates among imipenem-resistant isolates of Pseudomonas spp.
This study aimed to evaluate weight and height status and their relationship with psychological problems among elementary schoolchildren.
This cross-sectional study aimed to examine the association between self-reported exposure status to second-hand smoke and urinary cotinine level in pregnant nonsmokers.
A prospective study was planned to determine the relationship between post swim-up acrosome index (AI) evaluation and fertilization outcomes in an in vitro fertilization (IVF) program.
To examine the influence of ovariectomy (OVX) on bone turnover and trabecular bone mass at the 3 clinically important skeletal sites in mature cynomolgus monkeys.
Using the RAND/UCLA methodology to create the appropriateness criteria, we assessed that the appropriate ratings in cataract surgery can be a better prognosis of outcomes in postoperative 12 months than uncertain or inappropriate ratings. In addition, we identified the degree of the appropriate rating surgery associated with the outcome changes in postoperative 12 months.
The objective of this study was to determine the phenotypic characterization of ligamentum flavum cells from patients with ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF).
The most important function of the larynx is airway protection which is provided through a polysynaptic reflex closure triggered by the receptors in the glottic and supraglottic mucosa, evoking the reflex contraction of the laryngeal muscles especially by strong adduction of vocal cords. Based on the hypotheses that central facilitation is essential for this bilateral adductor reflex and that its disturbance can result in weakened laryngeal closure, we designed this study to elucidate the effect of central facilitation on this protective reflex.
The aim of this study was to evaluate new cardiac deformity indexes (CDIs) for diagnosis of pectus excavatum as well as morphological assessment of heart on computed tomography (CT).
Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS, NIH category III) accounts for 90-95% of prostatitis cases. However, standard treatment has not yet been established. It is known that polyphenols have an inhibitory effect on inflammation by their antioxidative capacity, and oligonol, a polyphenol derivative, has much higher bioavailability and bioactivity than common polyphenols. We investigated the anti-inflammatory effects and mechanisms of oligonol in estradiol-induced prostatitis rat models.
Cervical cancer caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV) continues to be the cause of yearly death among women. However, it is a curable disease when diagnosed at an early stage. Recently, several researches have reported that heat shock protein (HSP) 60, a chaperone protein of molecular weight of 60 kDa, is involved in carcinogenesis and apoptosis. In order to evaluate the prognostic significance of HSP60 in cervical cancer, we examined differences in the HSP60 expression between cervical cancer and normal tissues in women.
The serum concentrations of insulin-like growth factors-I (IGF-I), insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) and growth hormone (GH) are related to body composition, function and metabolism, and are influenced by the aging process. This study was to investigate the influence of gender on serum concentrations of IGF-I, IGFBP-3 and GH in middle and old age subjects.
Fentanyl was reported to inhibit the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist-induced contraction. The goal of this in vitro study was to identify the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor subtype primarily involved in the fentanyl-induced attenuation of phenylephrine-induced contraction in isolated endothelium-denuded rat aorta.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of phase contrast X-ray microtomography and microradiography, using a polychromatic synchrotron X-ray, for analysis of the mouse lung microstructure.
Doctors are asked to play the roles of both a healer and a professional. In dealing with this inherent demand, we should first ask ourselves if we are selecting students who show traits that would enable them to become a good doctor. The primary concern of this study was to identify the core elements of medical professionalism that will develop into professional competence that we should be sought in medical school applicants.
To analyze the short-term and long-term effect of Er-yttrium aluminum garnet (Er-YAG) laser in stapes surgery.
To report the clinical manifestations and the revision surgery principles of recurrent diseases of the posterior fossa nerves after primary surgery.
To explore the experience and value of overlay tympanoplasty.
To evaluate the indications and surgery time of cochlear implantation in patients with otitis media with effusion (OME).
To analyze the nystagmus during particle repositioning maneuver for posterior semicircular canal benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (PC-BPPV), and verify different pathogenesis of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV).
To study the clinical characters and the mode of treatment, and to analyze the prognosis of patients with sinonasal adenoid cystic carcinoma.
To investigate the effect of fibreoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES) in the assessment of dysphagia.
To explore the surgical treatment and the principle of selecting approaches in traumatic laryngotracheal stenosis.
To analyze the characteristic of the radioactive lymph node with metastatic disease and to explore the method of the localization of sentinel lymph node (SLN) with radionuclide in N0 clinically laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer.
To evaluate rehabilitation effect of Amatsu's tracheoesophageal shunt operation after total laryngectomy with sphincter mechanism.
To explore and evaluate the combined conservative managements in the treatment of cervical chylous leakage.
To study the effect of carbon monoxide (CO) on hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in guinea pigs with allergic rhinitis (AR) through intervention treatment.
To investigate the significance of Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1), Angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) expression in angiogenesis, vessel maturation, progress and prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
To study the effects of sirolimus (SRL) on the growth of transplanted human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in nude mice.
To study the clinical efficiency of metallic stent implantation in combination with three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients with portal vein tumor thrombus.
To investigate the effect of osteopontin (OPN) on the invasion and metastasis of human hapatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
To compare the prognosis of small hepatocellular carcinoma patients with hepatitis B virus infection versus hepatitis C virus infection.
To investigate the incidence of HBV reactivation and its clinical characteristics in the non-active HBsAg carriers receiving chemotherapy or immunosuppressant treatment, and to evaluate the role of nucleos(t)ide analogues against HBV reactivation.
To investigate the correlation between viral factors and liver histological changes of HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B patients with persistently normal serum ALT levels (PNAL).
To evaluate the effect of Chai Shao Liu Jun Tang in combination with Lamivudine for the treatment chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients.
To explore the role of sinusoidal endothelial cell in the development of liver fibrosis, and to dissect the relationship among hepatic microcirculation disorders, hepatic sinusoidal capilarization and liver fibrosis.
To investgate the effects of TGFbeta3 on rat hepatic fibrosis.
To investigate the inhibitory effect of danshensu on the activation of JNK signaling in rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induced by IL-1beta.
To establish PEG10 transgenic mice model and study the effect of PEG10 transgene on tumor growth and metastasis in mice.
To explore the risk factors for hepatoblastoma.
To explore the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in cultured human alveolar type 2 cells (A549) stimulated by mechanical force in vitro.
To investigate the effect of controlled mechanical ventilation (CMV) on the diaphragm of rats, and therefore to understand the theoretic basis of difficulty weaning due to dysfunction and morphology in diaphragm induced by inappropriate mechanical ventilation.
To study the feasibility of the bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP) non-invasive ventilator used in home mechanical ventilation for long-term tracheostomy-mechanical ventilation (TMV) in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
To study the effect of nitric oxide (NO) on the expression of cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX-2) and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in a rat model of acute lung injury (ALI) induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
To describe a case of lymphoma presenting with multi-organ involvement, and to review similar cases reported in the English and Chinese literatures since 1994.
To explore whether acute pulmonary embolism (APE) can be quantitatively predicated early with 3 clinical scoring systems, with multidetector CT angiography (MDCTA) as the gold standard, and therefore to select a scoring system more suitable for the Chinese.
To investigate HRCT semi-quantitative score in the response to corticosteroid treatment and prognosis in idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (IIP) patients.
To explore the effect of cyclooxygenase-2 on vascular endothelial cell apoptosis induced by cigarette smoke extract.
This study was to explore the role of erythromycin on the synthesis of interleukin-8 (IL-8) and gamma-GCS treated by 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) in bronchial epithelial cells (16-HBE).
To analyze the etiology of infections in the wounded victims of Wenchuan Earthquake.
To investigate the DNA homology between the methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolated from the wounds caused by earthquake and those from the patients from non-earthquake-stricken areas.
To investigate the distribution of pathogenic bacteria in the patients of injuries combined with infection after May 12 Wenchuan Earthquake and the drug resistance thereof.
To investigate the cognitive event related potentials in Chinese character priming effect of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and to analyze the neural mechanism of the priming effect.
To analyze the mRNA expression of omentin mRNA level in subcutaneous and omental adipose tissues of normal, obese, and type 2 diabetic individuals and to investigate the relationship between omentin mRNA expression and serum omentin level, body fat parameters, glucose and lipid metabolism, and insulin resistance indexes.
To investigate the impact of metabolic syndrome (MS) with or without hyperglycemia on stroke prevalence compared to that of diabetes alone.
To explore the outcome of transnasal endoscopic optic nerve decompression (TEOND) for traumatic optic neuropathy (TON).
To investigate the expression levels of mucin-1 (MUC1) and beta-catenin in papillary thyroid carcinoma, the significance thereof in the carcinogenesis and development of tumor.
To better understand the neutrophil activation and protease imbalance in respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) bronchiolitis.
To evaluate the impact of FcgammaRIIIA gene polymorphism on the response to rituximab therapy in newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
To analyze the correlation of central compartment lymph node metastasis (CCLNM) with different clinical factors of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (PTMC).
To explore effective method to avoid iatrogenic bile duct injury during laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC).
To discuss the diagnosis and treatment of adrenal cyst.
To examine the epidemiologic characteristics of major cancers in Dafeng City, Jiangsu Province.
To investigate the effects of sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase 2a (SERCA2a) overexpression on the endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS).
To study the effects of bone morphogenic proteins-7 (BMP-7) on the production of collagen from hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells (HSC) during liver fibrosis, and the possible mechanism thereof.
To further identify the breast adenocarcinoma cell line T47D-tk stably expressing the suicide gene HSV1-tk, observe its growing characteristics, and establish an animal model of implanted breast adenocarcinoma.
To investigate the Gap junction protein beta 2 (GJB2) gene mutation in cochlear implantation (CI) recipients and the treatment outcome of CI in the CI recipients with GJB2 gene mutation.
To investigate the impact of dopaminergic therapy on the onset of motor complications in Parkinson's disease (PD).
To investigate the influence of different degrees of neuromuscular blockade on motor evoked potential (MEP) of forearm muscles under the same condition of anesthesia depth and analgesia.
To investigate the optimal dose of local anesthetic mixture in ultrasound-guided infraclavicular brachial plexus block via coracoid approach.
To study the relationship of long-term effect of trabeculotomy on primary congenital glaucoma and the related risk factors.
To explore the safety and efficacy of intravenous iron sucrose in maintenance dialysis and to establish the optimal administration frequency and dose.
To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics and differential diagnosis of primary peritoneal adenocarcinoma.
To explore the mRNA expression of MyoD gene in the skeletal muscles of myotonic dystrophy (MD) patients.
To investigate the change of serum levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines: macrophage migration inhibition factor (MIF), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin 6 (IL-6), in patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) and their role in the pathogenesis of related diseases.
To investigate the relationship between neuroendocrine differentiation (NED) in prostate cancer and hormone refractory prostate cancer.
To investigate the curative effect of managing infected nonunion with large skeletal defects utilizing debridement and granulated cancellous bone grafting.
To construct an anti-sense cDNA library of human breast cancer cells to screen essential genes with anti-tumor effects on apoptosis of human breast cancer cells induced by trichostatin A.
To investigate the effect of pigment epithelium derived factor (PEDF) on the growth of lung cancer cells and the cancer-related neovascularization.
To evaluate the effects of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation on the growth of liver cancer.
To explore the mechanism and immunoregulatory role of 1, 25-dihydroxy vitamin D(3) [1, 25 (OH)(2)D(3)]-treated dendritic cells (DCs) in allergic airway inflammation.
To explore the feasibility of the therapeutic strategy to use T-bet gene modified dendritic cells (DCs) to reverse the course of asthma.
To enhance the knowledge about Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS).
To evaluate the status of asthma control and asthma perception in asthmatic outpatients of Beijing urban district.
To study the expression and function of sphingosine kinase (SphK) 1 and SphK2 in human keloid fibroblasts.
To investigate the characteristics of chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and pathogenesis of acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD)-induced lung injury after allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT).
To investigate the role of CD2-associated protein (CD2AP) and nephrin expression in the multilocular cystic renal cell carcinoma (MCRCC) METHODS: Seventy four specimens of renal lesions, including 29 cases of MCRCC, 32 case of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC), and 13 cases of simple renal cyst (SRC), were collected during operation. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the CD2AP expression. Five wax lumps from each of the 3 groups of specimen, totally 15, were randomly selected to undergo re-sectioning and immunohistochemistry so as to compare the levels of staining intensity and location of expression of CD2AP and nephrin in the same sections.
To analyze the chromosomal karyotype aberrations of exfoliated urothelial cells in superficial bladder cancer patients and the correlation thereof to recurrence of carcinoma.
To investigate the effects of transurethral unroofing in treatment of seminal vesicle cyst.
To investigate the influence of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 3b on the expression of cyclin D1 gene and methylation of its promoters and to investigate the function of DNMT3b.
To study the effects and role of central endocannabinoid system in the mechanism of visceral hyposensitivity induced by rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation.
We choose to review current knowledge focused on pretreatment evaluation and prognostic markers in cervical cancer and make recommendations for future research.
The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of the anal fistula plug in the treatment of high fistula-in-ano.
To evaluate the physical and nutritional status of patients with SSc.
Magnetic drug targeting may be a new method for the treatment of malignant tumors. According to the previous investigations, the success of magnetic targeting is generally contingent upon the magnetic properties and size distribution of the magnetic nanoparticles. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to verify the tolerance of two ferrofluid dispersions modified in particle size and density.
To determine whether community integration and/or quality of life (QoL) among people living with chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) are superior among sport participants vs non-sport participants.
To study efficacy of surgery in the management of pressure ulcers and evaluate the effect of simultaneous comprehensive rehabilitation in improving outcome.
Clonus is an involuntary rhythmic muscle contraction after sudden muscle stretch that occurs as a result of a lesion in the upper motor neurons. The real mechanism behind clonus remains obscure. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of central-acting tizanidine treatment and peripheral extremity cooling on clonus.
To investigate inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of electrical perceptual threshold (EPT) testing in assessing somatosensory function in healthy volunteers.
Despite the attention depression after spinal cord injury (SCI) has received, research and clinical practice have been hampered by inadequate emphasis on reliable and valid measurement. Assessment of symptoms in persons with SCI is challenged by the presence of "trans-diagnostic" symptoms and unexamined effects of gender. The objective of this study was to examine the factor structure of the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9; the 9-item depression scale of the Patient Health Questionnaire) and determine whether the structure replicates across gender.
To determine the within-rater agreement for total scores of light touch (LT), pin prick (PP), and total motor (TM) in children and youth.
To develop a latent behavioral model by identifying and confirming the factor structure of health behaviors of people with spinal cord injury (SCI) and their relationships with biographic, injury, and educational characteristics.
High cervical spinal cord hemisection interrupts descending respiratory drive from the rostral ventral respiratory group in the medulla to the ipsilateral phrenic motoneurons. Hemisection results in the paralysis of the ipsilateral hemidiaphragm. Chronic administration of rolipram, a specific phosphodiesterase-IV inhibitor, promotes synaptic plasticity and restores phrenic nerve function after a high cervical spinal cord lesion. Here, we test the hypothesis that an acute administration of rolipram will increase spinal and medullary levels of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and induce phrenic nerve recovery after cervical (C2) spinal cord hemisection.
Spasticity after spinal cord injury (SCI) is commonly managed with oral and intrathecal baclofen (ITB), with less attention to the effects on voluntary motor control. Studies combining clinical and neurophysiologic assessments during dose optimization are rare. Study aims (a) systematically evaluate effects of varied doses of oral and ITB on clinical and neurophysiologic measures of strength and spasticity and (b) relate clinical and neurophysiologic findings.
Tarlov cysts or spinal perineurial cysts are uncommon lesions. These are mostly incidental findings on magnetic resonance imaging or myelograms. The objectives of this study were to describe Tarlov cysts of the sacral region as a potential cause for retrograde ejaculations and review available management options.
To report manifestation of autonomic dysreflexia (AD) in a man with multiple sclerosis (MS).
To describe a case of fatigue associated with cardiomyopathy in a man with spinal cord injury.
The patient-centered medical home is evolving as an approach to providing primary care. Primary care is defined by four main characteristics: comprehensive, coordinated, continuous, and accessible care, all of which are measurable. This analysis identifies tools for determining whether a patient-centered medical home achieves high level primary care.
To clarify the diagnosis of open-angle glaucoma in an atypic case.
To evaluate the situation of glaucoma patients' management in Romania.
To analyze the course of the disease and the management of patients with pseudoexfoliative glaucoma in our clinic, a tertiary center for glaucoma.
To evaluate the efficiency of the limbo-conjunctival autografting in pterygium surgery.
This study examined effects of bereavement 21 months after a parent's death, particularly death by suicide.
Impaired verbal memory in schizophrenia is a key rate-limiting factor for functional outcome, does not respond to currently available medications, and shows only modest improvement after conventional behavioral remediation. The authors investigated an innovative approach to the remediation of verbal memory in schizophrenia, based on principles derived from the basic neuroscience of learning-induced neuroplasticity. The authors report interim findings in this ongoing study.
The authors sought to assess the longitudinal course of youths with bipolar spectrum disorders over a 4-year period.
Recent advances in the assessment of disability in schizophrenia have separated the measurement of functional capacity from real-world functional outcomes. The authors examined the similarity of performance-based assessments of everyday functioning, real-world disability, and achievement of milestones in people with schizophrenia in the United States and Sweden.
There is increasing interest in the relations between adverse early experiences and subsequent psychiatric disorders. Institutional rearing is considered an adverse caregiving environment, but few studies have systematically examined its effects. This study aimed to determine whether removing young children from institutional care and placing them with foster families would reduce psychiatric morbidity at 54 months of age.
Preclinical and clinical data implicate the group II metabotropic glutamate receptors mGluR2 and mGluR3 in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Moreover, a recent phase II clinical trial demonstrated the antipsychotic efficacy of a mGluR2/mGluR3 agonist. The purpose of the present study was to distinguish the expression of mGluR2 and mGluR3 receptor proteins in schizophrenia and to quantify glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) in order to explore a role for the metabotropic receptors in schizophrenia therapeutics. GCP II is an enzyme that metabolizes N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG), which is the only known specific endogenous agonist of mGluR3 in the mammalian brain.
Two major convenient questionnaires of asthma control in childhood, Japanese Pediatric Asthma Control Program (JPAC) and Childhood Asthma Control Test (C-ACT) have been available in Japan. The aim of this study is comparison of utilities of these questionnaires by means of respiratory function and fractional nitric oxide (FENO).
To compare in vitro metabolism rates for artemisinin and the CYP2B6 substrates, bupropion, propofol and efavirenz in human liver microsomes.
Little information is available concerning the effectiveness of plasma exchange for progressive liver failure in liver transplant recipients. The aims of the present study were to evaluate the effectiveness of plasma exchange and discuss its indication.
We have observed a difference between patients on low-flux hemodialysis (HD) or peritoneal dialysis and patients on hemodiafiltration (HDF) or high-flux HD in the capacity of transmigrated leukocytes to mobilize CD11b in response to inflammatory stimuli compared with healthy subjects. This could be due to different interstitial chemokine concentrations.
Intravenous iron infusion is the accepted way of supplementation of that compound in uremic patients. The aim of the study was to evaluate whether this treatment affects intraperitoneal homeostasis in patients on peritoneal dialysis.
The ratio of extracellular water to total body water (ECW/TBW) estimated by bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) may be a useful volume index in haemodialysis (HD) patients, but its direct relation to cardiovascular (CV) outcomes has been rarely evaluated.
Assuming an immune component in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, we have investigated a possible association between coronary artery disease (CAD) and the acid phosphatase locus 1 (ACP1) genetic polymorphism, which has previously been found to be associated with immune disorders.
We investigated the clinical outcome of stenting of unprotected left main coronary artery (LMCA).
In aortic regurgitation (AR), fibronectin (FN) expression is upregulated. This study sought to determine signal transduction pathways involved in upregulation of FN expression in AR.
A critical step of protein synthesis involves the liberation of the mRNA cap-binding translation initiation factor eIF4E from 4EBP inhibitory binding proteins, and its engagement to the scaffolding protein eIF4G. eIF4E is a candidate target for cancer therapy because it is overexpressed or activated in many types of tumors and has tumorigenic properties. Our aim was to design and evaluate 4EBP-based peptides for their antitumor activity in ovarian cancer.
Previously, we showed that adoptive transfer of in vivo vaccine-primed and ex vivo (anti-CD3/anti-CD28) costimulated autologous T cells (ex-T) at day +12 after transplant increased CD4 and CD8 T-cell counts at day +42 and augmented vaccine-specific immune responses in patients with myeloma. Here, we investigated the safety and kinetics of T-cell recovery after infusing ex-T at day +2 after transplant.
Reovirus is a naturally occurring oncolytic virus in clinical trials. Although tumor infection by reovirus can generate adaptive antitumor immunity, its therapeutic importance versus direct viral oncolysis is undefined. This study addresses the requirement for viral oncolysis and replication, and the relative importance of antitumor immunity and direct oncolysis in therapy.
Copper transporter 2 (CTR2) is known to mediate the uptake of Cu(+1) by mammalian cells. Several other Cu transporters, including the influx transporter CTR1 and the two efflux transporters ATP7A and ATP7B, also regulate sensitivity to the platinum-containing drugs. We sought to determine the effect of CTR2 on influx, intracellular trafficking, and efflux of cisplatin and carboplatin.
Gain-of-function mutations in BRAF, NRAS, or KIT are associated with distinct melanoma subtypes with KIT mutations and/or copy number changes frequently observed among melanomas arising from sun-protected sites, such as acral skin (palms, soles, and nail bed) and mucous membranes. GAB2 has recently been implicated in melanoma pathogenesis, and increased copy numbers are found in a subset of melanomas. We sought to determine the association of increased copy numbers of GAB2 among melanoma subtypes in the context of genetic alterations in BRAF, NRAS, and KIT.
Multiplexing assay of biomarkers at the point-of-care is an elusive goal for molecular diagnostics.
To investigate the advantages of treatment with the SN-38-incorporating polymeric micelles NK012 over CPT-11 in combination with cisplatin [cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum (II) (CDDP)] in mice bearing a small cell lung cancer xenograft in terms of antitumor activity and toxicity, particularly intestinal toxicity.
SIRT1 (silent mating-type information regulation 2 homologue 1) expression has been reported to predict poor survival in some cancers. We therefore investigated the expression levels of SIRT1 and its negative regulator, DBC1 (deleted in breast cancer 1), in gastric cancer patients.
Few biological prognosticators are useful for prediction of Richter syndrome (RS), representing the transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to aggressive lymphoma. Stereotyped B-cell receptors (BCR) may have prognostic effect in CLL progression. We tested the prognostic effect of stereotyped BCR for predicting RS transformation.
Previously, FTY720 was found to possess potent anticancer effects on various types of cancer. In the present study, we aimed to first verify the role of Runx2 in prostate cancer progression and metastasis, and, subsequently, assessed if FTY720 could modulate Runx2 expression, thus interfering downstream events regulated by this protein.
The presenting clinico-hematologic features of 1,283 patients with IgG and IgA monoclonal gammopathies of undetermined significance (MGUS) were correlated with the frequency of evolution into multiple myeloma (MM).
Cancer stem cells represent an attractive therapeutic target for tumor eradication. The present study aimed to determine whether CD133 expression may identify cells with characteristics of cancer stem/progenitor cells in human endometrial tumors.
ESO is a tumor-specific antigen with wide expression in human tumors of different histologic types and remarkable spontaneous immunogenicity. We have previously shown that specific T(H)1 and antibody responses can be elicited in patients with no detectable preexisting immune responses by vaccination with rESO administered with Montanide ISA-51 and CpG ODN 7909. The purpose of the present study was to characterize vaccine-induced ESO-specific CD4(+) T cell responses.
Up-regulation of the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA2 has been shown in several epithelial cancers. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and K-Ras have been reported to regulate EphA2 in several in vitro models, but this regulation has never been examined in tumors from patients. Because of the established importance of EGFR and K-Ras mutations in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), we investigated the relationship between these mutations and EphA2 in this cancer type. The significance of EphA2 expression was further examined by testing for correlation with other clinical parameters.
Somatic mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene are associated with an increased response to gefitinib in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. We have examined the impact of gefitinib on progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with EGFR mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer.
Preclinical studies have shown that the combination of topotecan and carboplatin is synergistic. To evaluate the schedule dependency of this interaction, the following phase I trial was designed to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD), pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of carboplatin and topotecan in patients with malignant solid tumors.
Metastatic prostate cancer is a major cause of death of men in the United States. Expression of met, a receptor tyrosine kinase, has been associated with progression of prostate cancer.
Disturbed peripheral blood B-cell homeostasis complicates certain infections and autoimmune diseases, such as HIV and systemic lupus erythematosus, but has not been reported in cancer. This study aimed to investigate whether B-cell physiology was altered in the presence of melanoma and other cancers.
High-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) is the main etiologic factor for cervical cancer. The severity of HPV-associated cervical lesions has been correlated to the number of infiltrating macrophages. The objective of this work is to characterize the role of tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) on the immune cellular response against the tumor.
Numerous preclinical studies have shown that local photodynamic therapy (PDT) of tumors enhances systemic antitumor immunity. However, other than single-case and anecdotal reports, this phenomenon has not been examined following clinical PDT. To determine whether PDT in a clinical setting enhances systemic recognition of tumor cells, we examined whether PDT of basal cell carcinoma resulted in an increased systemic immune response to Hip1, a tumor antigen associated with basal cell carcinoma.
The purpose of the study was to investigate signaling molecules involved in the acquisition of tolerogenic properties by dendritic cells (DC) in ret transgenic mice with spontaneous melanoma progression and to target these molecules to overcome the barrier for effective melanoma immunotherapy.
In preclinical models, radioimmunotherapy with (131)I-A5B7 anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) antibody ((131)I-A5B7) combined with the vascular disruptive agent combretastatin-A4-phosphate (CA4P) produced cures unlike either agent alone. We conducted a phase I trial determining the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), maximum tolerated dose, efficacy, and mechanism of this combination in patients with gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas.
Epigenetic changes such as DNA methylation play a key role in the development and progression of multiple myeloma. Our aim in the present study was to use genomic screening to identify genes targeted for epigenetic inactivation in multiple myeloma and assess their role in the development of resistance to dexamethasone.
Cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) are commonly activated in colorectal cancer. The activity of cyclin D1 can be blocked by CDK inhibitors, including p27 (CDKN1B) and p21 (CDKN1A, which is induced by p53). However, prognostic significance of tumoral cyclin D1 remains uncertain, and no previous study has considered potential confounding effect of p53, p21, p27, and related molecular events [microsatellite instability (MSI), CpG island methylator phenotype, and LINE-1 hypomethylation].
Previously we developed membrane-arrays as a promising tool to detect circulating tumor cells (CTC) with KRAS oncogene in patients with malignancies. This study was conducted to determinate the predictive values of CTCs with KARS mutation by membrane-arrays for metastatic colorectal cancer patients treated with cetuximab plus chemotherapy.
Camptothecin (CPT) has potent broad-spectrum antitumor activity by inhibiting type I DNA topoisomerase (DNA topo I). It has not been used clinically because it is water-insoluble and highly toxic. As a result, irinotecan (CPT-11), a water-soluble analogue of CPT, has been developed and used as salvage chemotherapy in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma, but with only modest activity. Recently, we have developed a cyclodextrin-based polymer conjugate of 20-(S)-CPT (IT-101). In this study, we evaluated the preclinical antilymphoma efficacy of IT-101 as compared with CPT-11.
Testing agents in cancers with multiple disease subtypes, in which the activity of a new treatment may vary between subtypes, presents statistical and logistical challenges. We propose a flexible phase II strategy which includes both analyses for each histology or stratum and a combined analysis which borrows information from all the patients in the study. Sequential futility analyses are conducted once each subgroup or the overall group reaches a specified minimum accrual.
In preparation for a phase I clinical trial using a combined cytotoxic/immunotherapeutic strategy with adenoviruses (Ad) expressing Flt3L (Ad-Flt3L) and thymidine kinase (Ad-TK) to treat glioblastoma (GBM), we tested the hypothesis that Ad-TK+GCV would be the optimal tumor-killing agent in relation to efficacy and safety when compared with other proapoptotic approaches.
The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of topical cyclosporine A (CsA) treatment on corneal thickness (CT) in patients with trachomatous dry eye.
Stapled transanal rectal resection is advocated for the treatment of obstructed defecation syndrome. Supporting evidence for its safety and effectiveness has been lacking. To address this, the European Stapled Transanal Rectal Resection Registry was initiated in January 2006. This study was designed to analyze 12-month postoperative outcomes of this procedure using data collected in the registry.
The use of laparoscopy surgery in the management of rectal cancer is controversial, especially in the mid and low rectum. The aim of this study was to determine oncologic and long-term outcomes after laparoscopic and hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery for mid and low rectal cancer.
Lateral pelvic recurrence is considered a poor prognostic variable and a relative contraindication to surgery because of the difficulty in achieving clear margins. The aim of this study was to outline our surgical approach to lateral pelvic sidewall involvement and assess the oncologic and long-term outcomes.
Sacral nerve stimulation has traditionally been used to treat patients with fecal incontinence with intact anal sphincters. This rationale has been challenged, but it remains unknown if its efficacy is related to the extent of the sphincter injury.
The combination of laparoscopic colorectal surgery together with an enhanced recovery program has resulted in short hospital stays. The purpose of this study was to assess the acceptability and safety of a 23-hour-stay protocol developed for patients undergoing laparoscopic colectomy.
This study was designed to assess the prognostic value of the lymph node ratio in patients with colon cancer treated by colorectal specialists.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of postoperative complications and the presence of a stoma on long-term quality of life in patients with rectal cancer.
Genetic information may help preoperatively select patients with familial adenomatous polyposis for either colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis or proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. Although complicated, the latter procedure has a low long-term risk of rectal cancer.
Relative survival estimates are widely used by cancer registries. They provide survival rates adjusted for causes of death other than cancer. They have rarely been used in clinical settings. When compared with cause-specific survival rates or competing risks analysis, their applicability is hardly known. This study compares these three outcome measures on the basis of a well-documented clinical database of patients with colorectal cancer.
This study was designed to characterize the presentation, care, and outcomes of persons older than 75 years, compared with persons 50 to 74 years of age, selected for colorectal cancer.
Local excision is currently being considered as an alternative strategy for ypT0-2 rectal cancer. However, patient selection is crucial to rule out nodal disease and is performed by radiologic studies that consider size as a surrogate marker for positive nodes. The purpose of this study was to determine the difference in size between metastatic and nonmetastatic nodes and the critical lymph node size after neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy.
This study was designed to evaluate pouch durability and salvage in patients undergoing continent ileostomy and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis.
The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of gracilis muscle transposition for recurrent rectovaginal fistula.
Differences in acquired mutations in colon and rectal tumors may account for differences in risk factors. In this study, we examined similarities and differences in somatic alterations in colon and rectal tumors.
Free malignant cells in the peritoneal cavity might play a role in the metastasis process. However, this phenomenon needs further elucidation. The aims of this study were to investigate the frequency of free cancer cells detected on cytologic examination of lavage fluid after peritoneal washing in patients undergoing curative surgery for colorectal cancer, to explore risk factors for exfoliation of cancer cells into the peritoneal cavity, and to evaluate the influence peritoneal lavage cytology as a prognostic tool.
Our objective was to define anal resting pressure and electromyography of the normal rat anal sphincter and investigate the short-term effects of both mechanical trauma to the anal sphincter muscles and pudendal nerve transection.
Vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 plays an important role in solid tumor enlargement and/or metastasis. This study evaluated the clinical significance of measuring serum levels of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 in colorectal cancer and aimed to clarify the biologic significance of its local expression.
The classic surgical treatment of acute complicated sigmoid diverticulitis with peritonitis is often a two-stage operation with colon resection and a temporary stoma. This approach is associated with high mortality and morbidity and the reversal of the stoma is in many cases not performed because of concurrent diseases and age. Recently, several studies have experimented with laparoscopic lavage as a treatment of acute complicated diverticulitis. The aim of this review was to give an overview of the literature for this new approach and to determine the safety compared with Hartmann's procedure for patients with acute complicated sigmoid diverticulitis.
Allergic skin and respiratory diseases show a high prevalence in most industrial countries. In addition, during the last years ragweed colonization has increased in Europe. Ambrosia pollen ( AMBROSIA ARTEMISIIFOLIA L. - common ragweed) are highly allergenic. Due to the late flowering time (august/September) of ragweed this can result in increasing health threats for allergic populations. This is of particular importance for those who already are sensitive to some grass or tree pollen. These individuals can then suffer from allergies during nearly the whole year. The present study examined the prevalence of sensitization to ragweed in German children and possible health implications.
Cochlear implant (CI) users typically report that speech recognition becomes substantially more difficult in the presence of background noise. This perception is consistent with objective measures of speech recognition showing that CI users require more favorable signal-to-noise ratios than normal-hearing (NH) listeners to achieve equivalent speech recognition. However, recent research in hearing aid users suggests that noise tolerance or the "willingness to listen in noise" may also influence perceived communication ability. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the extent to which speech recognition in noise and noise tolerance predict perceived communication ability among adult CI users.
American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) guidelines allow pulsed and warbled tones in measuring audiometric thresholds and include test frequencies of 3000 and 6000 Hz. However, no research has examined the relationship between thresholds obtained with these stimuli at these frequencies. This study investigated the relationship between thresholds obtained with pulsed, warbled, and pulsed-warbled tones.
Recent studies have suggested the potential of wideband energy reflectance (ER) for the assessment of middle ear disorders. The purpose of this study was to examine the use of wideband ER in the evaluation of an ossicular discontinuity and its repair in human cadaver temporal bones.
Although watching television is a common leisure activity of older adults, the ability to understand televised speech may be compromised by age-related hearing loss. Two potential assistive devices for improving television viewing are hearing aids (HAs) and closed captioning (CC), but their use and benefit by older adults with hearing loss are unknown. The primary purpose of this initial investigation was to determine if older hearing-impaired adults show improvements in understanding televised speech with the use of these two assistive devices (HAs and CC) compared with conditions without these devices. A secondary purpose was to examine the frequency of HA and CC use among a sample of older HA wearers.
Current protocols presumably use criteria that are chosen on the basis of the sensitivity and specificity rates they produce. Such an approach emphasizes test performance but does not include societal implications of the benefit of early identification. The purpose of the present analysis was to evaluate an approach to selecting criteria for use in Universal Newborn Hearing Screening (UNHS) programs that uses benefit-cost ratio (BCR) to demonstrate an alternative method to audiologists, administrators, and others involved in UNHS protocol decisions.
The abilities to localize sounds and segregate speech from interfering sounds in a complex auditory environment were studied in a group of adults who use bilateral cochlear implants. The first aim of the study was to investigate the change in speech intelligibility under bilateral and unilateral listening modes as a function of bilateral experience during the first 6 mo of activation. The second aim was to look at whether localization and speech intelligibility in the presence of interfering speech are correlated and if the relationship is specific to the bilateral listening mode. The third aim was to examine whether sound lateralization (right versus left) emerges before sound localization within a hemifield.
Assessment of cochlear implant outcomes centers around speech discrimination. Despite dramatic improvements in speech perception, music perception remains a challenge for most cochlear implant users. No standardized test exists to quantify music perception in a clinically practical manner. This study presents the University of Washington Clinical Assessment of Music Perception (CAMP) test as a reliable and valid music perception test for English-speaking, adult cochlear implant users.
The goals of this investigation were to gauge how hearing loss affects the self-perceived job performance and psycho-emotional status of professionals in the workforce and to develop a profile of their aural rehabilitation needs.
Subjective questionnaires are informative in understanding the difficulties faced by patients with hearing loss. Our intent was to establish and validate a new questionnaire that encompasses situations emphasizing binaural hearing. The Spatial Hearing Questionnaire is a self-report assessment tool with eight subscales representing questions; pertaining to the perception of male, female, and children's voices; music in quiet; source localization; understanding speech in quiet; and understanding speech in noise.
Cortical auditory evoked potentials, including mismatch negativity (MMN) and P3a to pure tones, harmonic complexes, and speech syllables, were examined across groups of trained musicians and nonmusicians. Because of the extensive formal and informal auditory training received by musicians throughout their lifespan, it was predicted that these electrophysiological indicators of preattentive pitch discrimination and involuntary attention change would distinguish musicians from nonmusicians and provide insight regarding the influence of auditory training and experience on central auditory function.
Investigations on the temporal variabilities of metals generally show that the concentration levels of many harmful metals in air have been continuously decreasing around the world including North America and Western Europe. However, an excursion from such trends has been expected and demonstrated from E. Asia due to the major source contribution from China. To help understand long-term patterns of airborne toxic metals in East Asia, the particle-bound concentrations of Pb, Mn, Ni, Cr, and Cd were analyzed in the two largest cities of Korea, Seoul and Busan, over a 14-year period (1991 through 2004). The results of this study will provide a comprehensive overview on long-term trends of important metals in major urban areas of E. Asia.
Herbicide fate and its transport in soils and sediments greatly depend upon sorption-desorption processes. Quantitative determination of herbicide sorption-desorption is therefore essential for both the understanding of transport and the sorption equilibrium in the soil/sediment-water system; and it is also an important parameter for predicting herbicide fate using mathematical simulation models. The total soil/sediment organic carbon content and its qualitative characteristics are the most important factors affecting sorption-desorption of herbicides in soil or sediment. Since the acetochlor is one of the most frequently used herbicides in Slovakia to control annual grasses and certain annual broad-leaved weeds in maize and potatoes, and posses various negative health effects on human beings, our aim in this study was to investigate acetochlor sorption and desorption in various soil/sediment samples from Slovakia. The main soil/sediment characteristics governing acetochlor sorption-desorption were also identified.
Degradation of the 16 US EPA priority PAHs in soil subjected to bioremediation is often achieved. However, the PAH loss is not always followed by a reduction in soil toxicity. For instance, bioanalytical testing of such soil using the chemical-activated luciferase gene expression (CALUX) assay, measuring the combined effect of all Ah receptor (AhR) activating compounds, occasionally indicates that the loss of PAHs does not correlate with the loss of Ah receptor-active compounds in the soil. In addition, standard PAH analysis does not address the issue of total toxicant bioavailability in bioremediated soil.
Each year, large quantities of pharmaceuticals are consumed worldwide for the treatment and prevention of human and animal diseases. Although the drugs and the metabolites observed in the wastewaters and in the environment are present at concentrations several orders of magnitude lower than the concentrations required to exert their effects in humans or animals, their long-term impact on the environment is commonly not known. In this study, the occurrence of six antihistamines, which are used for the relief of allergic reactions such as hay fever, was determined in sewage treatment plants wastewaters and in recipient river waters.
The European Heavy Metals in Mosses Surveys (UNECE-ICP Vegetation) is a programme performed every 5 years since 1990 in at least 21 European countries. The moss surveys aim at uncovering the spatiotemporal patterns of metal and nitrogen bioaccumulation in mosses. In France, the moss survey was conducted for the third time in 2006. Five hundred thirty-six monitoring sites were sampled across the whole French territory. The aim of the presented study is to give an integrative picture of the metal bioaccumulation for the entire French territory without geographical gaps. Furthermore, confounding factors of the metal bioaccumulation in mosses should be investigated.
Tobacco, Nicotiana tabacum, is a widely used model plant for growth on heavy-metal-contaminated sites. Its high biomass and deep rooting system make it interesting for phytoextraction. In the present study, we investigated the antioxidative activities and glutathione-dependent enzymes of different tobacco clones optimized for better Cd and Zn accumulation in order to characterize their performance in the field.
Over the last two decades, there has been a remarkable shift of attention to the scientific and political fundamentals of the precautionary principle. The application of this principle has become a main strategy of coping with the different forms and problems related to non-knowledge. Thus, societies are increasingly confronted with the challenging and hitherto unresolved problem of political and technological decision-making under conditions of diverging framings of non-knowledge. At present, there seems to be no generally accepted scientific or institutional approach. This is why the fundamental question of how different scientific actors define and construct evidence is not answered yet. Hence, this paper is based on the consideration that the conflicts in risk policy concerning genetically modified organisms (GMO) depend on the unresolved conflicts about the diverging scientific strategies and structures of evidence-making between the epistemic cultures involved. Thus, this study investigates two questions: (1) do the epistemic strategies of evidence-making differ systematically with the scientific actors involved in the GMO-debate? (2) What consequences emerge considering institutionalized procedures of decision-making?
Dissolved humic substances (HS) usually comprise 50-80% of the dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in aquatic ecosystems. From a trophic and biogeochemical perspective, HS has been considered to be highly refractory and is supposed to accumulate in the water. The upsurge of the microbial loop paradigm and the studies on HS photo-degradation into labile DOC gave rise to the belief that microbial processing of DOC should sustain aquatic food webs in humic waters. However, this has not been extensively supported by the literature, since most HS and their photo-products are often oxidized by microbes through respiration in most nutrient-poor humic waters. Here, we review basic concepts, classical studies, and recent data on bacterial and photo-degradation of DOC, comparing the rates of these processes in highly humic ecosystems and other aquatic ecosystems.
The use of sodium hypochlorite (HYP) in viticulture results in effluents which are contaminated with halogenated substances. These disinfection by-products (DBPs) can be quantified as group parameter 'adsorbable organic halogens' (AOX) and have not been determined in effluents of viticulture yet. The substances that are detected as AOX are unknown. The AOX can be composed of harmless substances, but even toxic contaminants. Thus, it is impossible to assess ecological impacts. The aim of this study is to determine the quantification of AOX and DBPs after the use of HYP. This will be helpful to reduce environmental pollution by AOX.
Estrogenic and non-estrogenic chemicals typically co-occur in the environment. Interference by non-estrogenic chemicals may confound the assessment of the actual estrogenic activity of complex environmental samples. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether, in which way and how seriously the estrogenic activity of single estrogens and the observed and predicted joint action of estrogenic mixtures is influenced by toxic masking and synergistic modulation caused by non-estrogenic chemical confounders.
In 1875, the geoscientist Walter Suess introduced several spheres, such as the lithosphere and the atmosphere to promote a comprehensive understanding of the system earth. Since then, this idea became the dominating concept for the understanding of the distribution of chemical elements in the system earth. Meanwhile, due to the importance of human beings on global element fluxes, the term anthroposphere was introduced. Nevertheless, in face of the ongoing urbanization of the earth, this concept is not any more adequate enough to develop a comprehensive understanding of global element fluxes in and between solid, liquid, and gaseous phases. This article discusses a new concept integrating urbanization into the geoscientific concept of spheres.
We present a case of femoral artery thrombosis and acute limb ischemia in an infant following attempted femoral venipuncture. Microsurgical reconstruction of the lesion and a review of the literature are described.
Tako-tsubo cardiomyopathy is characterized by transient contractile dysfunction after emotional or physical stress. Only few patients show late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) in cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). It was the purpose of this study to elucidate the histological basis of this phenomenon.
Earlier studies in monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) twins showed genetic variance on echocardiographically determined heart size. However, cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is more precise and reproducible. We performed a twin study relying on CMR, focusing on left ventricular (LV) mass and papillary muscle, since there are no genetic reports on this structure.
The clinical significance attributable to myocardial bridging of left anterior descending coronary artery in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) remains controversial.
Cardiac biomarkers are routinely elevated after uncomplicated cardiac surgery to levels considered diagnostic of myocardial infarction in ambulatory populations. We investigated the diagnostic power of electrocardiogram (ECG) and cardiac biomarker criteria to predict clinically relevant myocardial injury using benchmarks of mortality and increased hospital length of stay (HLOS) in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.
To determine (i) the effect of perindopril on several geometric and functional parameters of the left and right ventricles assessed by echocardiography in the unique Perindopril and Remodelling in Elderly with Acute Myocardial Infarction (PREAMI) population of post-acute myocardial infarction (AMI) elderly patients with preserved left ventricular (LV) function; and (ii) the prognostic predictors at pre-discharge derived from echo-Doppler measurements in the same population.
BAY 58-2667 (BAY-58) directly activates soluble guanylyl cyclase without tolerance in a nitric oxide (NO)-independent manner, and its haemodynamic effect is similar to that of nitroglycerin. We tested whether BAY-58 could make both rabbit and rat hearts resistant to infarction when given at the end of an ischaemic insult.
Increases in body weight (BW) are important determinants for hospitalization in ambulatory patients with heart failure (HF), but have not yet been explored in patients hospitalized for worsening HF. We explore the relationship between change in BW after hospitalization for worsening HF and risk for repeat hospitalization and mortality in the EVEREST trial.
Endothelial lipase (LIPG) is implicated in the metabolism of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Small studies in selected populations have reported higher HDL-C levels among carriers of the common T111I variant in LIPG, but whether this variant is associated with plasma lipids and risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in the general population is unclear. The objective of this study was to address the associations of the T111I variant with plasma lipids and risk of CHD in three independent prospective studies of generally healthy men and women.
Epidemiological studies show that peak exposure to air pollution is associated with increased morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular events. Panel and controlled exposure studies show that particulate matter (PM) may influence the parasympathetic regulation of the heart. The aim of this study was to concurrently measure individual exposure to PM of various sizes, heart rate variability (HRV), and electrical instability in patients with myocardial infarction.
Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC) is caused by mutations in genes encoding sarcomeric proteins. Incomplete penetrance suggests the existence of modifier genes. Calmodulin (CaM) could be of importance given the key role of Ca(2+) for cardiac contractile function and growth. Any variant that affects CaM expression and/or function may impact on FHC clinical expression.
The CAPTIM (Comparison of primary Angioplasty and Pre-hospital fibrinolysis In acute Myocardial infarction) study found no evidence that a strategy of primary angioplasty was superior in terms of 30-day outcomes to a strategy of pre-hospital fibrinolysis with transfer to an interventional facility in patients managed early at the acute phase of an acute myocardial infarction. The present analysis was designed to compare both strategies at 5 years.
Endothelial dysfunction and plaque formation are features of atherosclerosis. Inhibition of L-type calcium channels or HMG-CoA pathway improves endothelial function and reduces plaque size. Thus, we investigated in stable coronary artery disease (CAD) the effects of a calcium antagonist on coronary endothelial function and plaque size.
Although the utility of two-dimensional (2D) speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) to quantify left ventricular (LV) volume has been demonstrated, this methodology is limited by foreshortened views, geometric modelling, and the assumption that speckles can be tracked from frame to frame, despite their out of plane motion. To circumvent these limitations, a three-dimensional (3D) speckle tracking algorithm was recently developed. Our goal was to evaluate the accuracy of the new 3D-STE side by side with 2D-STE using cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) as a reference.
To assess the long-term rate of mortality and the recurrence of potentially life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias in secondary prevention implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) patients and to construct a model for baseline risk stratification.
To give new insights into the pathogenesis of vocal fold nodules: (a) why the female/male ratio is so extreme, (b) how an hourglass-shaped vibration pattern - eliciting a localized microtrauma - originates, and (c) what the roles of muscular tension imbalance and of behavioral aspects are.
Speech impairment often occurs in patients after treatment for head and neck cancer. New treatment modalities such as surgical reconstruction or (chemo)radiation techniques aim at sparing anatomical structures that are correlated with speech and swallowing. In randomized trials investigating efficacy of various treatment modalities or speech rehabilitation, objective speech analysis techniques may add to improve speech outcome assessment. The goal of the present study is to investigate the role of objective acoustic-phonetic analyses in a multidimensional speech assessment protocol.
Liver stiffness (LS) measured by transient elastography (TE) has been reported to correlate with liver fibrosis, which is usually semiquantitatively assessed. In the present study, the fibrosis area was measured by image analysis software in liver biopsy specimens and its correlation with LS was assessed.
Although the anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) antibody test has been recommended to the whole Japanese population, most countries have not implemented it. The present study aims to re-evaluate the usefulness of markers examined in the general health examination for the initial screening of HCV carriers.
A nationwide survey in Japan revealed that nearly one-fifth of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients are co-infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV). We conducted a study to further analyze the features of liver disease in HIV-HCV co-infected patients.
To clarify the usefulness of colestimide in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with hyperlipidemia.
Transcription factor T-bet is responsible for the differentiation of naive T lymphocytes, and its expression level is linked with different responses to some viral infections, including hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. In this report we examine whether promoter polymorphisms of the TBX21 gene (encoding T-bet) are associated with susceptibility to HBV persistence or disease progression in chronic HBV carriers.
The specific incidence of ischemic hepatitis in septic shock patients remains unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of ischemic hepatitis in septic shock and its relationship with mortality.
In patients with advanced cirrhosis, little is known about the ability of peripheral blood monocytes to spontaneously produce signaling proteins such as cytokines. The aim of this ex vivo study was to evaluate cytokine production under baseline conditions and after stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist.
We reported previously that hypoadiponectinemia enhances hepatic oxidative stress and accelerates progression of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in mice. However, the precise mechanism and preventive effects of adiponectin on NASH remain unclear. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of adiponectin on steatohepatitis using adiponectin-knockout (KO) mice and adenovirus-mediated adiponectin expression system.
We report the usefulness of percutaneous color Doppler ultrasonography (CDU) for evaluating therapeutic effects on rectal varices.
We investigated whether the insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I response to growth hormone (GH) is regulated by body mass index (BMI) in short children with normal weight.
To determine whether birth size, postnatal growth and growth during growth hormone (GH) treatment, were associated with IGF1 gene polymorphisms and haplotypes.
Glucocorticoids play an important role in the pathogenesis of obesity and insulin resistance. 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (HSD11B1), which converts inactive cortisone to active cortisol, has become an emerging therapeutic target for type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity. In this study, we examined the association between HSD11B1 polymorphisms and type 2 diabetes and metabolic phenotypes in Koreans.
Visfatin is a recently discovered adipokine, and its circulating concentrations have not been adequately studied in type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM). Therefore, this study was designed to examine plasma visfatin levels in type 1 diabetic patients and to determine the relationships between visfatin and duration of diabetes, body mass index, glycemic control, insulin dosage and lipid profile.
To assess the effect of growth hormone (GH) treatment on body composition and insulin resistance, and the interdependence of these factors, in short children born small for gestational age (SGA) and children with growth hormone deficiency (GHD).
To determine the effects of IGF-I on leptin and insulin concentrations, we examined leptin and insulin nocturnal profiles before and after the administration of the IGF-I/IGFBP-3 complex (Iplex) to prepubertal, low birth weight children.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the IGF-I generation test (IGF-I gen) as a possible indirect test of Growth Hormone (GH) secretory status.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the changes in the levels of vasoactive eicosanoid hormone-like substances PGE2, PGI2 and TXA2 in hemodialysis (HD)patients who were following a long-term physical training program during the hemodialysis session.
To evaluate the efficacy of Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG) as a definitive procedure for morbidly obese patients.
To estimate diabetes-related resource use and investigate its predictors among individuals with type 2 diabetes in 24 countries in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa.
To evaluate oral antidiabetes drug (OAD) use, haemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) testing and glycaemic control in type 2 diabetes patients.
Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) has been associated with depression and a host of neuropsychiatric conditions including dementia. This study assessed the relationship between cerebrovascular findings reported on MRI brain scans and neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) and behavioural problems in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
This review provides an overview of ADHD, its consequences and pharmacotherapy; describes the principles of health economic analysis, health-related quality of life (HRQL) and a cost-effectiveness model of atomoxetine for ADHD treatment; and outlines guidance from the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence on ADHD pharmacotherapy.
Reports from non-Asian populations indicate that painful physical symptoms (PPS) are associated with poorer clinical and functional outcomes in major depressive disorder (MDD). The purpose of this study is to report comparative changes in disease severity, treatment patterns and quality of life observed in East Asian patients with MDD, with and without PPS, as assessed prospectively over a 3-month observation period.
To compare cognitive impairment of medications used in social anxiety disorder (SAD).
To outline pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, drug interactions, equianalgesic dose ratio with other opioids, dosing rules, adverse effects and methadone clinical studies in patients with cancer pain. A review of relevant literature on methadone use in cancer pain was conducted.
We aimed to evaluate the frequency of consanguinity among the parents of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and the influence of parental consanguinity on several clinical and laboratory parameters which reflect the severity of the disease.
To evaluate the effect of the intradermal application of a metabolic extract of Fusarium oxysporum in the skin of Wistar rats.
To report the number and characteristics of incident cases of cutaneous malignant melanoma in Abruzzo, a central-southern Italian region.
To analyze the clinical and laboratory features associated with adult-onset ID linked to HTLV-1.
Low-grade systemic inflammation is proposed as a component of metabolic syndrome (MS) and is reported as a predictor of diabetes. We studied the association between white blood cell count (WBC) and MS and diabetes in Japanese men and women.
To evaluate the potential of dynamic CT enhanced by iohexol or a novel macromolecular contrast agent, PEG12000-Gen4-triiodo, to monitor microvascular changes in tumors treated with the angiogenesis inhibitor bevacizumab.
The corpus callosum (CC) represents a key structure for hand motor development and is accessible to investigation by diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). To identify quantifiable markers for motor development, we combined DTI with TMS.
To evaluate the potential of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) for monitoring dose-dependent tumor response in a mouse-xenograft model of Ewing sarcoma after administration of treosulfan in different dosages.
To evaluate the Cardiac Image Modeling (CIM 4.6; University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand) tool's ability to assess cardiac function via quantitative calculations of global and regional ejection fraction (EF) from magnetic resonance imaging in comparison with a current method of global analysis with Argus (Siemens Medical Solutions) and regional analysis with visual analysis.
Dual-energy computed tomography (CT) makes it possible to remove bones and intraluminal plaques from angiography datasets on the basis of spectral differentiation separating iodine from calcium. The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and efficiency of this technique by comparing maximum intensity projections (MIP) created with different bone removal techniques: (a) dual-energy bone removal (DEBR); (b) purely software-based bone removal without manual corrections (SBBR - MC); and (c) manually corrected software-based bone removal (SBBR + MC). A further aim was to evaluate the dual-energy-based plaque removal tool.
To evaluate the risk of PD associated with tea consumption.
To investigate current dietary intakes of arachidonic acid (AA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in healthy children between 4-7 years of age using a 3-day food record.
To determine the effects of a dried aqueous extract of cinnamon on antioxidant status of people with impaired fasting glucose that are overweight or obese.
To examine associations between diet quality measures, lifestyle variables, and cardiovascular risk factors in a large cohort of French adults.
To reduce the GI and to improve the nutritional quality of standard wheat flakes (SWF) by adding a sourdough prefermentation step, suppressing steam cooking and decreasing the sucrose content (MWF, modified wheat flake).
In this study we examined the relationship between body composition, inflammation, and iron status in healthy, non-obese, pre-menopausal females.
To study the effects of trans-10,cis-12 conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) on liver size and composition, as well as on hepatic lipogenesis and fatty acid oxidation, in adult hamsters.
To estimate the association of anembryonic pregnancy with 55 elements, homocysteine, folate and S-adenosylhomocysteine in pregnant women.
Excess generation of reactive oxygen species in damaged joints accelerates inflammatory responses in RA (rheumatoid arthritis) patients. The complementary effects of dietary antioxidant supplementation on the blood level of inflammatory mediators and the severity of the disease in RA patients were evaluated.
America On the Move (AOM) is a national weight gain prevention initiative that promotes small lifestyle changes by increasing walking by 2000 steps/day and reducing energy intake by about 100 kcal/day. The study's intent was to determine the impact of these small changes recommendations on steps/day and energy intake.
The objectives were to determine: 1) the percentage of the population with intakes greater than the Adequate Intakes (AI) for calcium and potassium and the percentage of the population with inadequate magnesium intake (based on Estimated Average Requirement [EAR]) and 2) the impact of various levels of dairy consumption on intake of calcium, potassium and magnesium.
To test the effectiveness of a restorative care (Res-Care) intervention on function, muscle strength, contractures, and quality of life of nursing home residents, with secondary aims focused on strengthening self-efficacy and outcome expectations.
To determine the prospective relationship between blood pressure (BP) and cognitive function across a wide age range.
To determine whether healthy aging is associated with increased sleepiness and whether healthy older adults experience more sleepiness when acutely sleep deprived.
To evaluate the extent of concomitant use of anticholinergic and cholinesterase inhibitor medications in Medicaid recipients with dementia residing in nursing homes.
To determine the effects of primary care-based, multicomponent physical activity counseling (PAC) promoting physical activity (PA) guidelines on gait speed and related measures of PA and function in older veterans.
To examine agreement between self-report of chronic disease and medical record data for inner-city seniors, their sensitivity and specificity, and the association between patient characteristics and accuracy of self-reports.
To identify the impact of pressure ulcers (PUs) and PU interventions on health-related quality of life (HRQL).
To estimate the frequency, distribution, and correlates of nonprescription use of pain relievers by middle-aged and elderly persons in the United States.
To describe the medical decisions confronting healthcare proxies (HCPs) of nursing home (NH) residents with advanced dementia and to identify factors associated with greater decision-making satisfaction.
To analyze baseline data on concomitant use of prescription drugs and dietary supplements in elderly people from the Ginkgo Evaluation of Memory (GEM) Study, in which information was collected on all drugs and supplements used by participant.
To describe bruising as a marker of physical elder abuse.
To analyze whether inflammatory processes in the periodontium in early old age are related to subsequent mortality during 21 years of follow-up in a nondisabled 70-year-old population.
To identify independent risk factors for death in elderly emergency department (ED) patients admitted for infection and to derive and validate a mortality-prediction rule for such patients.
To evaluate the relationship between serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), IGF-1 binding protein 1 (IGFBP-1), and IGF-1 binding protein 2 (IGFBP-2) and fasting insulin, fasting glucose, adiposity, and mortality in older adults.
To test intervention protocols for feasibility, staff adherence, and effectiveness in reducing pneumonia risk factors (impaired oral hygiene, swallowing difficulty) in nursing home residents.
To investigate the effects of an educational intervention on the use of physical restraints with psychogeriatric nursing home residents.
The overarching aim of the Understanding Patients' Needs, Interactions, Treatment, and Expectations (UNITE) Global Survey was to empirically evaluate the attitudes and general fund of knowledge that individuals with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia possess regarding somatic health issues.
To assess if early revascularization offers any survival benefit in patients with cardiogenic shock (CS) complicating acute myocardial infarction (AMI) who are &gt; or = 75 years of age.
This study aims at in-vitro validation of the principles of endovascular detection of contrast medium and assessing the feasibility of in-vivo detection and removal of contrast during angiography.
Nickel allergy (NA) occurring after implantation of a nitinol-containing device is rare and not well understood. This study aimed to evaluate the current practices and experience of interventional cardiologists with NA after closure of congenital heart defects (CHD) with nitinol-containing devices.
We sought to evaluate the impact on long-term clinical outcomes of different types of drug-eluting stents (DES) in elderly patients.
This study was to analyze research reports published in Korea on cardiac rehabilitation for patients with cardiovascular disease.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) administration alone or exercise combined with DHEA before steroid treatment on rat hindlimb muscles.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the determinants of job satisfaction of hospital nurses. The focus was on work rewards. A causal model of job satisfaction of hospital nurses was constructed based on situational perspectives.
The purpose of this study was to explore and describe healing effects of the forest on alcoholics through a forest experience program.
The purpose of this study was to identify the influence of the type-D personality on quality of life and illness intrusiveness.
This study was done to examine the effects of aromatherapy on stress and stress responses in adolescents.
To evaluate the effects of case management using Resident Assessment Instrument-Home Care (RAI-HC) in home health service for older people.
The purposes of this study were (a) to identify smoking behavior by following a cohort representative of the population of 4th grade elementary schoolers in South Korea over a four-year period (2004-2007), and (b) to explore predictors of smoking initiation among non-smokers in Wave 1.
This descriptive study was done to identify the relationship between health literacy and health status and to provide basic data for developing nursing interventions for Korean-Chinese elders living in Yanbian, China.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of unilateral sciatic nerve injury on unaffected hindlimb muscles of rats.
The purpose of this study was to identify the relationship of peer relationships, self-reported attachment security, perceived parental rearing attitudes, and loneliness in upper elementary school-age children.
In this research multi-level analysis was done to identify factors related to quality of services. Patient characteristics and organizational factors were considered.
In this study rest-activity rhythm, sleep pattern and quality of life of patients with restless legs syndrome were compared with those of a normal group.
The purpose of this study was to assess changes in pain, fatigue, anorexia, anxiety and quality of life (QOL) in patients with cancer who were on chemotherapy.
The aim of this study was to construct a structural equation model that would further explain the continuously increasing substance use disorder in Korean adolescents.
Germline loss-of-function mutations in the SPRED1 gene have recently been identified in patients fulfilling the National Institutes of Health (NIH) diagnostic criteria for neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) but with no NF1 (neurofibromin 1) mutation found, suggesting a neurofibromatosis type 1-like syndrome.
The present study was designed to compare cystic lung changes consistent with LAM in patients with a TSC1 disease-causing mutation, TSC2 disease-causing mutation, or no mutation identified (NMI).
In an attempt to localise quantitative trait loci (QTLs) influencing HDL-C, apo A-1 and TG, we conducted genome-wide linkage scans of subjects of the Strong Heart Family Study.
To investigate whether the presence of autoantibodies specific for type 1 diabetes (T1D) is determined by the major genetic susceptibility locus for the disease at the HLA genes, using the T1D Genetics Consortium data.
We have investigated the prevalence and the spectrum of SFTPC mutations in a large cohort of infants and children with diffuse lung disease and suspected with surfactant dysfunction.
Mutations of the SPRED1 gene, one of a family of Sprouty (Spry)/Spred proteins known to "downregulate" mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling, have been identified in patients with a mild neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) phenotype with pigmentary changes but no neurofibromas (Legius syndrome).To ascertain the frequency of SPRED1 mutations as a cause of this phenotype and to investigate whether other SPRED/SPRY genes may be causal, a panel of unrelated mild NF1 patients were screened for mutations of the SPRED1-3 and the SPRY1-4 genes.
Several studies have indicated that short-term mortality risk is higher among patients who are admitted on the weekends. This "weekend effect" has been observed among patients admitted with a variety of diagnoses, including myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, and stroke. This study examines the relationship between short-term mortality risk and weekend admission among patients hospitalized following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).
In endovascular coil embolization for an intracranial aneurysm, the excessive pressure created during coil insertion into an aneurysm can cause a catastrophic rupture or dislodge a microcatheter tip from the aneurysm dome, resulting in insufficient embolization. Such undue mechanical pressure can only be subjectively detected by the subtle tactile feedback the surgeon experiences. Therefore, the authors of this study developed a new sensor device to measure the coil insertion pressure via an optical system.
Development of a flexible self-expanding stent system and stent-assisted coiling technique facilitates endovascular treatment of wide-necked brain aneurysms. The hemodynamic effect of self-expandable stent placement across the neck of a brain aneurysm has not been well documented in patient-specific aneurysm models.
Preoperative impairment of cerebral hemodynamics predicts the development of new cerebral ischemic events after carotid endarterectomy (CEA), including neurological deficits and cerebral ischemic lesions on diffusion weighted MR imaging. Furthermore, the signal intensity of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) on single-slab 3D time-of-flight MR angiography (MRA) can assess hemodynamic impairment in the cerebral hemisphere. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether, on preoperative MR angiography, the signal intensity of the MCA can be used to identify patients at risk for development of cerebral ischemic events after CEA.
Individually, the cytokines erythropoietin (EPO) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) have both been shown to reduce neuronal damage significantly in rodent models of cerebral ischemia. The authors have previously shown that EPO and IGF-I, when administered together, provide acute and prolonged neuroprotection in cerebrocortical cultures against N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced apoptosis. The aim of this study was to determine whether intranasally applied EPO plus IGF-I can provide acute neuroprotection in an animal stroke model and to show that intranasal administration is more efficient at delivering EPO plus IGF-I to the brain when compared with intravenous, subcutaneous, or intraperitoneal administration.
Chronic hydrocephalus requiring shunt placement is a common complication following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Controversy exists over whether microsurgical fenestration of the lamina terminalis during aneurysm surgery affords a reduction in the development of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus. To resolve this debate, the authors performed a systematic review and quantitative analysis of the literature to determine the efficacy of lamina terminalis fenestration in reducing aneurysmal SAH-associated shunt-dependent hydrocephalus.
Intracranial hypertension, defined as intracranial pressure (ICP) &gt;/= 20 mm Hg, is a complication typically associated with head injury. Its impact on cerebral metabolism, ICP therapy, and outcome has rarely been studied in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH); such an assessment is the authors' goal in the present study.
The authors analyzed cerebral perfusion and metabolism in patients with internal carotid artery stenosis before and after carotid artery stenting (CAS).
Seizures are an important neurological complication of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). A better understanding of the risk factors of seizures following ICH is needed to predict which patients will require treatment.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the authors' initial experience with the integration of high-resolution rotational and biplanar angiography during neurovascular operative procedures.
The aim of this study was to analyze the histopathological changes in a consecutive series of 32 patients with brain arteriovenous malformations that were resected after undergoing endovascular embolization (22 using Onyx and 10 using N-butyl cyanoacrylate [NBCA]).
A ruptured dissecting aneurysm of the vertebrobasilar artery (VBA-DA) is a well-known cause of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) with a high rate of early rebleeding. Internal trapping of the parent artery, including the dissected segment, is one of the most reliable techniques to prevent rebleeding. However, for a ruptured VBA-DA not suitable for internal trapping, the optimal treatment method has not been well established. The authors describe their experience in treating ruptured VBA-DAs not amenable to internal trapping of the parent artery with stent-assisted coil embolization (SAC) followed by a stent-within-a-stent (SWS) technique.
The present study was designed to evaluate the new HydroSoft coil as a finishing coil in a canine model of a wide-necked, high-flow bifurcation aneurysm.
Prognostic factors for outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) include the clinical and pathological characteristics of the patient and hemorrhage as well as some aspects of treatment. Because treatment can vary between countries and continents, the authors used a large database of patients with SAH to determine the effect of the geographic location of treatment on outcome.
The visualization of white matter tracts using tractography has previously been achieved by displaying streamlines that pass between regions of interest (ROIs). These techniques require a significant amount of user interaction, and their results are entirely dependent on the positioning of the ROIs. Furthermore, in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage secondary to intracranial vascular malformation, there is often significant cerebral edema and susceptibility artifact from the hematoma, which degrade the reliability of tractography. In this paper, the authors' objectives were to visualize the motor pathways of patients with hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic vascular malformations by using a novel semiautomated technique that functions without the need for multiple ROIs.
Preliminary experience with the C-Port Flex-A Anastomosis System (Cardica, Inc.) to enable rapid automated anastomosis has been reported in coronary artery bypass surgery. The goal of the current study was to define the feasibility and safety of this method for high-flow extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery in a clinical series.
Delayed ischemic deficits (DIDs), a major source of disability following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH), are usually associated with severe cerebral vasospasm and impaired autoregulation. Systemic erythropoietin (EPO) therapy has been demonstrated to have neuroprotective properties acting via EPO receptors on cerebrovascular endothelia and ischemic neurons. In this trial, the authors explored the potential neuroprotective effects of acute EPO therapy following aSAH.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a potent hematopoietic growth factor that both enhances the survival and drives the differentiation and proliferation of myeloid lineage cells. Recent studies have suggested that GM-CSF has a neuroprotective effect against CNS injury. In this paper, the authors investigated the neuroprotective effect of GM-CSF on neuron survival and locomotor behavior in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemic injury.
The authors reviewed the experience of a single surgeon in the surgical treatment of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) in children, with specific attention to the angioarchitectural appearance of these lesions. Methods The authors performed a retrospective review of pediatric cases of AVM treated at a single institution over a 15-year period. Inclusion criteria consisted of pediatric age at time of treatment and resection of a pial AVM. The AVMs were considered linear-based if they had a single, centrally located, dominant vein with a linear configuration rather than the typical central nidus.
The prevalence of the different subtypes of craniosynostosis varies greatly. The aim of this study was to analyze the prevalences of the different subtypes of craniosynostosis at a single major craniofacial center and their changes during a 20-year period.
After primary repair of a myelomeningocele or a lipomyelomeningocele, patients can present with symptoms of secondary tethered cord syndrome (TCS). After surgical untethering, a small percentage of these patients can present with multiple repeat TCS. In patients presenting with secondary or multiple repeat TCS, the role as well the expected outcomes of surgical untethering are not well defined.
Deepening sedation is often needed in patients with intracranial hypertension. All widely used sedative and anesthetic agents (opioids, benzodiazepines, propofol, and barbiturates) decrease blood pressure and may therefore decrease cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). Ketamine is a potent, safe, rapid-onset anesthetic agent that does not decrease blood pressure. However, ketamine's use in patients with traumatic brain injury and intracranial hypertension is precluded because it is widely stated that it increases intracranial pressure (ICP). Based on anecdotal clinical experience, the authors hypothesized that ketamine does not increase-but may rather decrease-ICP.
The purpose of this study was to define the incidence of permanent shunt placement and infection in patients who have undergone the 2 most commonly performed temporizing procedures for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) of prematurity: ventriculosubgaleal (VSG) shunt placement and ventricular reservoir placement for intermittent tapping.
Progressive hydrocephalus may lead to edema of the periventricular white matter and to damage of the brain parenchyma because of compression, stretching, and ischemia. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether cerebral edema can be quantified using diffusion-weighted imaging in infants with hydrocephalus and whether CSF diversion could decrease cerebral edema.
Stathmin, an important cytosolic phosphoprotein, is involved in cell proliferation and motility. This study was performed to elucidate the role of stathmin in the progression of medulloblastoma.
In this paper, the authors' goal was to determine whether benign pineal cysts have smooth walls or internal structure on high-resolution MR imaging and to evaluate their imaging characteristics on FLAIR images.
There are few data on treatment results for patients with idiopathic infantile scoliosis (IIS). Thus, the authors have performed a retrospective review of their experience with treating these patients, particularly as newer technologies, such as the vertical expandable prosthetic titanium rib (VEPTR), emerge.
The authors' experience with treatment of 8 patients with "vertical mobile and reducible" atlantoaxial dislocation is reviewed. The probable pathogenesis, radiological and clinical features, and management issues in such cases are discussed.
Stabilization of the cervical spine can be challenging when instrumentation involves the axis. Fixation with C1-2 transarticular screws combined with posterior wiring and bone graft placement has yielded excellent fusion rates, but the technique is technically demanding and places the vertebral arteries (VAs) at risk. Placement of screws in the pars interarticularis of C-2 as described by Harms and Melcher has allowed rigid fixation with greater ease and theoretically decreases the risk to the VA. However, fluoroscopy is suggested to avoid penetration laterally, medially, and superiorly to avoid damage to the VA, spinal cord, and C1-2 joint, respectively. The authors describe how, after meticulous dissection of the C-2 pars interarticularis, such screws can be placed accurately and safely without the use of fluoroscopy.
Transpedicular instrumentation at C-7 has been well accepted, but salvage techniques are limited. Lamina screws have been shown to be a biomechanically sound salvage technique in the proximal thoracic spine, but have not been evaluated in the lower cervical spine. The following study evaluates the anatomical feasibility of lamina screws at C-7 as well as their bone-screw interface strength as a salvage technique.
The main objective was to study the epidemiological data obtained in patients with cervical spinal trauma (CST) in the north area of São Paulo City between 1997 and 2006.
In this study the authors evaluated disease incidence, treatment, and outcome in patients with unusual sequestered disc fragments simulating spinal tumors or another space-occupying lesion on preoperative MR imaging.
Metastatic epidural spinal cord compression (MESCC) is a relatively common and debilitating complication of metastatic disease that often results in neurological deficits. Recent studies have supported decompressive surgery over radiation therapy for patients who present with MESCC. These studies, however, have grouped all patients with different histological types of metastatic disease into the same study population. The differential outcomes for patients with different histological types of metastatic disease therefore remain unknown.
The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of assessing lumbar somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) in central lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS).
The vertebral artery (VA) and its branches may be encountered during various neurosurgical procedures such as far lateral suboccipital approaches to the skull base and spinal operations. Therefore, a working knowledge of the distribution and significance of such VA branches may be advantageous to the surgeon. To date, quantitation of these branches is lacking in the literature.
The present study was aimed to ascertain the contributions of mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) enzymes to the development of liver failure and to the liver pathophysiology of metabolic liver diseases.
We evaluated the usefulness of rating diffusion-weighted images (DWI) using a semiquantitative score modified from the Alberta Stroke Programme Early CT Score (ASPECTS) to predict deterioration of neurological symptoms in patients with hyperacute ischemic stroke who had undergone thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA).
We estimated the coronary artery wall using maximum intensity fusion (MIF) of whole-heart magnetic resonance (MR) angiography (WHCA) and water suppression-spectral presaturation with inversion recovery (WS-SPIR) 3D T(1)-weighted turbo field echo (3DT(1) TFE).
We investigated appropriate slice locations for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging evaluation of the maximal cross-sectional area (CSA) of individual rotator cuff (RC) muscles in normal adults and athletes.
We investigated the feasibility of 3D hyperpolarized (HP) (129)Xe magnetic resonance (MR) imaging at an extremely low concentration of HP (129)Xe supplied from a continuous flow-type hyperpolarizing (CF-HP) system and established a standard procedure for measuring regional lung ventilation of small animals, such as the mouse, as a baseline for further studies.
Recombinant human activated protein C (rh-APC) and tight glycemic control (TGC) have been shown to reduce mortality in septic patients. Both interventions can reduce the plasma concentration and/or activity of the most powerful suppressor of fibrinolysis, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). Our aim was to evaluate the effects on the fibrinolytic system after the administration of rh-APC in septic patients undergoing conventional or TGC.
Inguinal herniorrhaphy is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures in a same-day surgery setting. The prerequisite of having to discharge the surgical outpatient on the same day has an influence on the choice of the anesthetic technique.
Agents specifically targeting the vasculature as a mode of therapy are finding increasing use in the clinic, primarily in the treatment of colon cancer (Avastin) and age-related macular degeneration (Lucentis). We have previously shown that maternal administration of angiogenic inhibitors (TNP-470 [O-[chloroacetyl-carbamoyl]fumagillol, initially called AGM-1470], the first angiogenic inhibitor to undergo clinical trials, and Angiostatin(4.5), currently in phase I-III clinical trials) cause fetal growth restriction and/or placental abnormalities. During a rapid growth phase of ocular development in the mouse (embryonic days 12 to 19 [E12-E19]), the placenta mediates the metabolic requirements of the fetus and consequently may impact upon the growth of the highly oxygen sensitive fetal eye.
Cortisol is an important hormone/steroid in the regulation of intermediate metabolism and stress. It exists in free (unbound) and protein-bound forms in serum but only in a free form in saliva. The free form is the biologically active one. There is an advanced biofeedback system regulating the cortisol secretion/concentration by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
There is a growing interest in the use of recording from the surface of the brain, known as electrocorticography (ECoG), as a practical signal platform for brain-computer interface application. The signal has a combination of high signal quality and long-term stability that may be the ideal intermediate modality for future application. The research paradigm for studying ECoG signals uses patients requiring invasive monitoring for seizure localization. The implanted arrays span cortex areas on the order of centimeters. Currently, it is unknown what level of motor information can be discerned from small regions of human cortex with microscale ECoG recording.
Control signals for brain-machine interfaces may be obtained from a variety of sources, each with their own relative merits. Electrocorticography (ECoG) provides better spatial and spectral resolution than scalp electroencephalography and does not include the risks attendant upon penetration of the brain parenchyma associated with single and multiunit recordings. For these reasons, subdural electrode recordings have been proposed as useful primary or adjunctive control signals for brain-machine interfaces. The goal of the present study was to determine if 2D control signals could be decoded from ECoG.
The availability of sophisticated neural probes is a key prerequisite in the development of future brain-machine interfaces (BMIs). In this study, the authors developed and validated a neural probe design capable of simultaneous drug delivery and electrophysiology recordings in vivo. Focal drug delivery promises to extend dramatically the recording lives of neural probes, a limiting factor to clinical adoption of BMI technology.
The goal of this study was to determine whether a nonpenetrating, high-density microwire array could provide sufficient information to serve as the interface for decoding motor cortical signals.
This study aimed to investigate the association between weight loss achieved by laparoscopic gastric banding (LAGB) surgery, chronic inflammatory markers, and nutritional state.
To evaluate the links between kidney function and risk stratification in patients with primary dyslipidemia.
To compare MRI manifestations according to gender and age and to identify correlations between clinical manifestations and MRI findings in patients with temporomandibular disorder (TMD) as based on a large series.
To assess the significance of D-dimer in patients with CTEPH.
The primary objective of these investigations was to determine the fatty acid composition of the mouse retina as affected by diabetes. Additionally, in order to ascertain if there is any accumulation of lipids in the diabetic retina as occurs in many diabetic tissues, its total fatty acid content was also determined.
Inhibition of microglial activation has become an important strategy to attenuate neurotoxic damage to the central nervous system. We evaluated the effects of alpha-crystallin on the production of cytokines in lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and optic nerve injury-activated retinal microglia.
To investigate what were the lentogenic factors by examining the effects of lens extract and macrophage-conditioned medium (MCM) on the survival and the neurite outgrowth of rat retinal neurons in vitro.
Octreotide exhibits anti-angiogenic activity in animal models of retinopathy of prematurity and in clinical cases of proliferative diabetic retinopathy. In this study, we tested the applicability of using octreotide for inhibiting experimental choroidal neovascularization (CNV) in rats.
Staphylococcus epidermidis is considered a commensal bacterium; however, it is frequently isolated from ocular infections showing a multidrug resistance. Ciprofloxacin-resistant strains have been isolated from ocular infections; however, resistance to quinolone, such as gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin, is not often studied, consequently the resistance mechanism is unknown. Our aim was to address the quinolone resistance and to explore the resistance mechanism in S. epidermidis strains isolated from ocular infections.
The present study investigates whether glutamate immunoreactivity (IR) in the cat outer retina, which is devoid of blood vessels, can be well preserved by perfusion fixation.
Recent findings suggest that chronic inflammatory processes play a role in the progression of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Here we asked whether the development of different forms of AMD is connected with the elevation of plasma C3a-desArg concentration.
To describe a portable wide-field noncontact digital camera for posterior segment photography.
Chagas' disease is caused by persistent Trypanosoma cruzi infection in muscle cells that ultimately results in chronic inflammation and tissue destruction. The goal of this study was to determine the expression of different chemokines and their receptors, as well as proinflammatory cytokines and inducible nitric oxide synthase, in muscles from mice acutely infected with T. cruzi.
Inhibitor of growth (ING) 4 is a member of the ING family proteins. It has been shown to play an important role in cell cycle, transcription and oncogenesis, but the molecular mechanism of ING4 on tumor growth inhibition has not yet been elucidated. The goal of this study is to investigate the inhibitory effects of ING4 on gliomas and its mechanism by transduction of ING4 cDNA into glioma U87MG.
To investigate a rationale of pancreatobiliary cancers, thymidylate synthase (TS) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) concentrations in cancer tissues were evaluated.
Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a major difficulty in small bowel transplantation. Many postoperative complications are caused by damage to the intestinal mucosa following organ retrieval and during cold storage. Here we investigate whether 1-, 4-, 5-, 6-tetrahydro-2-methyl-4-pyrimidine carboxylic acid (THP) can protect ileal mucosa and muscularis against cold ischemia and subsequent warm in vitro reperfusion injury.
Craniotomy and evacuation is the standard treatment of acute epidural hematoma (EDH). Here, the authors report their experience in nonoperative management of acute EDH in children with mild head injury.
The purpose of this retrospective case series was to determine the incidence of complications and outcomes associated with a primary management policy of endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) prior to posterior fossa tumour resection in a single paediatric neurosurgical unit.
In this study, the correlation between the level of nerve growth factor (NGF) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and transcranial Doppler (TCD) results has been investigated during preoperative and postoperative periods of hydrocephalic infants.
To examine tracking of medicine use for headache from age 15 to 19 to 27.
Concerns that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) may increase the risk of suicidal behaviour amongst young people led to regulatory action in 2003/4 in many countries. Antidepressant prescribing to young people in various countries declined, but subsequent analyses have demonstrated mixed effects on population suicide rates.
Acid suppressants are commonly prescribed medications. Laboratory studies suggest a mechanism by which they could increase colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. A few epidemiologic studies have investigated acid suppressant use and CRC risk; none has documented an overall association. We sought to investigate whether acid suppressants are associated with CRC risk.
The prescription of psychotropic medications to children and adolescents has increased dramatically over the last decade. However, the development of disparities in prescribing is poorly understood. We examined whether clustering of utilization is a common phenomenon among early adopters of medications described the characteristics of clusters.
This study was designed to investigate the awareness of pharmacovigilance by healthcare professionals in Jiangsu, China.
Respiratory symptoms account for the majority of drug prescriptions in the first year of life. We investigated the influence of child, parent and physician factors on drug prescriptions for respiratory symptoms in primary care in infancy.
To describe the concerns raised by health plan members, providers and purchasers related to studying the comparative effectiveness of therapeutics using cluster randomized trials (CRTs) within health plans. An additional goal was to develop recommendations for increasing acceptability.
To determine the extent to which different highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) regimens pose risks for hypercholesterolemia in children with perinatal HIV-1.
To analyse psychotropic drug utilisation patterns in the general population of Norway in 2005.
Amide type local anesthetic agents are among the most commonly used drugs in medicine. Several adverse drug reactions (ADRs) have been previously described with their use. Among them, allergic reactions are considered rare. The aim of this study was to describe the main characteristics of ADRs induced by amide type local anesthetic drugs.
Real-life experience with anti-obesity drugs has shown that psychiatric and cardiovascular diseases may be reported as adverse drug reactions. For adequate risk assessment of these drugs knowledge on baseline risks of patients starting anti-obesity drugs and insight in patterns of use is needed. The aim was to assess whether baseline characteristics of patients starting anti-obesity drugs differ from those not being prescribed these drugs, and to study patterns of anti-obesity drug use.
To assess the association between spectroscopic and molecular characteristics and the occurrence of photosensitivity reactions.
Patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) have multiorgan dysfunction as well as altered pharmacokinetic parameters. Hence they are susceptible to adverse drug reactions (ADRs). The objective of the study is to assess the characteristics of ADRs among inpatients in the medical ICU and to compare the same with patients who have not experienced ADRs.
Instrumental variables (IV) methodology removes bias due to unobserved confounding by replacing in the analysis the treatment with another variable--the instrument--that is well correlated with the treatment and independent of confounders. Recently, physician drug preference, operationalized as the treatment prescribed to the previous patient of the same physician, was proposed as an instrument in database studies comparing two competing drugs. We assessed, in simulations, how the performance of the IV estimates depends on the strength of this instrument.
The role of autofluorescence spectroscopy in the detection and staging of benign and malignant brain tumors is being investigated in this study, with an additional aim of determining an optimum excitation wavelength for the spectroscopic identification of brain tumors.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of daily laser irradiation on the levels of amino acid neurotransmitters in the cortex and hippocampus in an epileptic animal model induced by pilocarpine.
This study aimed to investigate the effect of diode laser (830 nm) irradiation on the viability of ischemic random skin flaps in rats, as well as to determine the most effective site for applying laser radiation to speed healing.
Photodynamic bleaching is a recently developed method that may be suitable for photo-oxidation of difficult internal stains. This study examined the outcomes of photodynamic bleaching for treatment of confirmed cases of tetracycline discoloration, when used as a single-appointment procedure.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of different Er,Cr:YSGG laser parameters on the morphology of irradiated dentine and the shear bond strength between resin composites and irradiated dentine.
This study was done of the effects of plasma rich in growth factors (PRGF) on the healing of tongue wounds induced by the CO(2) laser.
This study aimed to investigate the effect of different energy intensities of the Er:YAG laser and of air abrasion with Al(2)O(3) particles on the surface roughness and morphologic characteristics of yttrium-stabilized tetragonal zirconia (Y-TZP) ceramics.
This study evaluates the systemic effect of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) on blood prolactin levels and lactation status when it is used to hasten surgical wound healing in women having undergone a cesarean section.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of an interferential pattern generated by two identical and independent lasers in the relief of knee pain.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent cells present in adult bone marrow that replicate as undifferentiated cells and can differentiate to lineages of mesenchymal tissues. Homeostatic control of bone remodeling maintains bone mass by ensuring that bone resorption and bone formation occur sequentially and in a balanced manner. As most homeostatic functions occur in a circadian manner, a circadian clock could control bone mass. Here we show that laser irradiation can direct the extracellular calcification of mouse MSCs by altering the intracellular localization of the circadian rhythm protein cryptochrome 1 (CRY1).
The aim of this FT-Raman study was to investigate laser-induced compositional changes in enamel after therapy with a low-level infrared diode laser and a photoabsorbing cream, in order to intensify the superficial light absorption before and after cariogenic challenge.
The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of intracellular photosensitizer distribution on tumor cell death after photodynamic therapy (PDT).
The aim of this study was to determine the influence of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) wrapping on the performance of two laser fluorescence devices (LF and LFpen) by assessing tooth occlusal surfaces.
To investigate whether an exercise program supplemented with LLLT is more successful than an exercise program supplemented with polarized polychromatic non-coherent light in treating LET.
The aim of this study is to demonstrate the ability of dentists to weld different metals during daily practice using a fiber-delivered laser normally used for dental surgery, and to evaluate the possibilities offered by this new technique.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects on Hep.2 cells originating from laryngeal carcinomas, and L929 cells originating from a fibroblast line, subjected to polarized light at a wavelength of 400-2000 nm.
In order to preserve the maximum amount of healthy enamel and increase the acid resistance of decalcified enamel, a CO(2) laser, an Nd:YAG laser, and acidulated phosphate fluoride (APF) were used to treat incipient carious lesions, then their effects were compared.
The aim of the present study was to compare the effect of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) and low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) on the cytoskeleton and endoplasmic reticulum of L929 cells. Thermal and non-thermal physical mechanisms such as LLLT and LIPUS induce clinically significant responses in cells, tissues, and organs.
The emerging dimensional approach to classification and treatment of psychiatric disorders calls for better understanding of diagnosis-related variations in psychiatric syndromes and for proper validation of psychometric scales used for the evaluation of those syndromes. This study tested the hypothesis that negative and depressive syndromes as measured by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) are consistent across different diagnoses.
Differences in the clinical presentation of men and women with borderline personality disorder (BPD) are of potential interest for investigations into the neurobiology, genetics, natural history, and treatment response of BPD. The purpose of this study was to investigate gender differences in axis I and axis II comorbidity and in diagnostic criteria in BPD patients.
To assess validity and interrater reliability of an operationalized German version of the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) in geriatric patients with comorbid dementia and high delirium risk.
Physical inactivity poses a major risk for obesity and chronic disease, and is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. However, the genetic association between physical activity (PA) level and obesity is not well characterized. Our aims were to: (i) estimate the extent of additive genetic influences on physical activity while adjusting for household effects; and (ii) determine whether physical activity and adiposity measures share common genetic effects.
The aim of the present study was to explore and determine which obesity index is the best indicator of blood pressure and the presence of hypertension among five frequently used simple anthropometric indices.
To critique current practice in, and provide recommendations for, mediating variable analyses (MVA) of nutrition and physical activity behaviour change.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the relationship between household food insecurity and maternal depression in a rural sample to determine whether food insecurity predicted mothers' depression over time or vice versa.
To study the association between diet quality and the new health messages in the Danish Dietary Guidelines 2005, i.e. 'Eat a varied diet', 'Engage in regular physical activity' and 'Maintain a healthy body weight'.
To examine the nutritional and functional status of community older adults in China, to identify the related factors and best predictors of elder nutrition.
To evaluate the relative validity of recalled intake among schoolchildren and mothers in rural Kenya.
To investigate the accuracy of self-reported weight status over the adult lifespan.
Stunting is a chronic condition reflecting poor nutrition and health. Our aim was to ascertain major predictors of stunting in children &lt;5 years old in Libya.
Physical activity is an important determinant of energy balance. However, its impact on overweight/obesity has proved difficult to measure in pre-school children and few studies have found significant associations. A set of simple questions was used to distinguish pre-school children with high and low physical activity, and the association of this classification with childhood overweight/obesity and performance in an established motor test was investigated.
To investigate the maternal factors associated with poor diet among disadvantaged children.
To assess current Mediterranean dietary patterns (MDP) in the western and eastern Mediterranean, i.e. in Balearic islanders (BI) and Greek islanders (GI).
To assess whether the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Programme (BINP) correctly identified which pregnant women should be enrolled in the food supplementation programme, whether supplementation commenced on time and was taken on a regular basis. A second objective was to determine whether food supplementation led to enhanced pregnancy weight gain and reduction in the prevalence of low birth weight.
To test whether change in the frequency of fish intake at population level would affect the trends of death from CHD and how many CHD events could be prevented in Hong Kong, a population among those with the highest fish consumption and the lowest CHD mortality in the world.
To describe a conceptual framework to assist in the application of capacity-building principles to public health nutrition practice.
To evaluate the long-term effects of the Schoolgruiten Project, a Dutch primary school-based intervention providing free fruit and vegetables (F&amp;V). In addition, we assessed whether children's appreciation of the project mediated these intervention effects.
Zn deficiency may be widespread in Asian countries such as South Korea. However, dietary habits have changed in response to rapid economic growth and globalization. Zn nutrition in South Koreans has therefore been assessed during a period (1969-1998) of unprecedented economic growth.
To investigate the relationship between 30 d fish frequency consumption (assessed by FFQ), total blood Hg concentrations and risk markers of CHD in women aged 16-49 years participating in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2002.
To assess the association of indicators of general and abdominal obesity with the prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and intermediate hyperglycaemia (IHG) in the Chinese population.
To examine the effect of the new Canadian labelling regulations on the fat composition and prices of margarines.
The study aimed to assess differences in dietary intake and growth of pre-schoolers and schoolchildren living in two limitary Greek islands; Samos, situated on the eastern border, and Corfu, situated on the western border.
To assess the adequacy of periconceptional intake of key micronutrients for perinatal health in relation to regular cereal consumption of pregnant women.
To examine the potential of anthropometry as a tool to measure gender discrimination, with particular attention to the WHO growth standards.
All previous studies on monetary diet cost have examined the relationship of monetary cost of self-reported diet to self-reported, rather than biomarker-based, estimates of dietary intake. The present cross-sectional study examined the association between monetary costs of self-reported diet and biomarker-based estimates of nutrient intake.
Little is known about the relationship of dietary cost to health status. The present cross-sectional study examined the association between the monetary cost of dietary energy (Japanese yen/4184 kJ) and several metabolic risk factors.
Canada's Aboriginal population is vulnerable to food insecurity and increasingly lives off-reserve. The Canadian Community Health Survey, Cycle 2.2 Nutrition, was used to compare the prevalence and sociodemographic correlates of food insecurity between non-Aboriginal and off-reserve Aboriginal households.
The objective of the present work was to quantify mothers' misclassification of pre-school children's weight status and to determine factors associated with the maternal misperception.
To describe which functions potential employers of public health nutritionists in Norway find important for a person trained in public health nutrition to be able to carry out. Further, to illustrate how the findings were used in the development of a curriculum for a bachelor in public health nutrition at Akershus University College.
To study the differences between children's self-reports and parents' reports on environmental determinants of fruit and vegetable intake among 11-year-old children in the European country with the lowest reported consumption. A second objective was to examine the observed variance in fruit and vegetable intake among the children.
Overweight and obesity have increased to epidemic proportions among adolescents and are associated with chronic non-communicable diseases and excess mortality in adulthood. The association of overweight/obesity with poor dietary habits has not been studied in adolescents in middle-income developing countries. The present study aimed to estimate the prevalence of overweight, obesity and high waist circumference (WC) in 15-19-year-old Jamaican adolescents and to investigate the association with fast-food and sweetened beverage consumption.
To describe the meal patterns of Jena schoolchildren and their associations with children's weight status and parental characteristics.
To determine the impact of BMI on post-operative outcomes and resource utilization following elective total hip arthroplasty (THA).
To describe the correlation between medial patellar ossification and prior patella subluxation and/or dislocation.
The objective of this study was to evaluate by cross-sectional imaging the prevalence and degree of cortical scalloping by small eccentric chondromas correlated with histologic diagnosis and patient history.
This study presents seven cases of a rare but distinctive form of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity-leptodactylic or Hall type to emphasize the characteristic clinical and radiological findings.
The objectives of the study were to optimize three cartilage-dedicated sequences for in vivo knee imaging at 7.0 T ultra-high-field (UHF) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to compare imaging performance and diagnostic confidence concerning osteoarthritis (OA)-induced changes at 7.0 and 3.0 T MRI.
The aim of this study was to use morphological as well as biochemical (T2 and T2* relaxation times and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI)) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the evaluation of healthy cartilage and cartilage repair tissue after matrix-associated autologous chondrocyte transplantation (MACT) of the ankle joint.
The objectives of the study were to compare MR imaging at 1.5 and 3.0 T in the same patients concerning image quality and visualization of cartilage pathology and to assess diagnostic performance using arthroscopy as a standard of reference.
To describe a rare case of paraplegia in a patient with Scheuermann's disease and dysplastic thoracic spinous processes.
To assess the validity of using markers of sympathetic activity (cutaneous blood flow and sweat release) as a measure of incipient autonomic dysreflexia during PVS in spinal cord-injured men.
To evaluate the clinical value and limitations of one-channel cystometry as a method for urodynamic testing in patients with spinal cord lesion (SCL).
Idiopathic transverse myelitis (I-TM) is typically monophasic, while relapsing forms are usually referred to spinal cord-restricted neuromyelitis optica (NMO), atypical multiple sclerosis (MS), or myelitis during the course of infections and connectivitis. Our objective was to evaluate the frequency of recurrent I-TM; to clarify the nosology of these forms through comparison with NMO and post-infectious TM (P-TM).
To examine patterns of participation in activities of daily living (ADL) and fitness-related factors associated with these patterns among individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI).
Although muscarinic receptors are the main targets for the treatment of detrusor overactivity today, anticholinergic therapy is not satisfying in a substantial percentage of patients. Recently, overexpression of P(2)X(2) receptors in patients with idiopathic overactive bladder was demonstrated, indicating that purinergic innervation may play an important role in the pathophysiology of detrusor overactivity. We evaluated the expression of P(2)X(2) receptors in patients with spinal cord lesions.
To determine the relationship between improvements of the American Spinal Injury Association/International Spinal Cord Society (ASIA/ISCoS) neurological standard scale (AIS) outcome measure and improvements of functional ambulatory outcome measures in patients with traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI).
Short-term results find transanal colonic irrigation (TAI) favourable in the treatment of neurogenic bowel dysfunction (NBD). Therefore, long-term results need to be described.
To determine whether Escherichia coli 83972-coated urinary catheters in persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) practicing an intermittent catheterization program (ICP) could (1) achieve bladder colonization with this benign organism and (2) decrease the rate of symptomatic urinary tract infection (UTI).
In traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI), much effort has been put into the evaluation of SCI severity and the prediction of recovery potential. An accurate prediction of the initial damage of the spinal cord that differentiates between the severities of SCI however, may help physicians in choosing a particular neuroprotective treatment in the acute phase. Neurochemical biomarkers may possibly fulfil these requirements. The aim of this review was to describe (1) the current status of neurochemical biomarkers in SCI; (2) their potential diagnostic role in SCI.
Review the literature on non-pharmacological prevention and treatment of osteoporosis after spinal cord injury (SCI).
To investigate the efficacy of the solar water disinfection (SODIS) method for inactivating Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts in turbid waters using 1.5 l polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles under natural sunlight.
To identify risk factors for typhoid and propose prevention measures.
To describe the factors associated with malaria infection and anaemia in pregnancy in northern Ghana.
To provide data about wealth distribution in visceral leishmaniasis (VL)-affected communities compared to that of the general population of Bihar State, India.
To conduct a critical review of the typology of female sex work in India.
To study climatological and public health events which might have affected the 2007 two-wave dengue outbreak in Taiwan, an island with both tropical and subtropical regions, where the 2007 dengue incidence exceeded the combined total of the previous four years.
Standard indicators are being used worldwide to track progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). These are usually at country level and do not accurately reflect within-country variability of progress towards the targets. This may lead to lack of attention and under-resourcing of the most vulnerable populations. Therefore, the objective of this study was to compare selected standard MDG indicators at country level and community level in Peru.
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) and Trichomonas vaginalis infection (TV) have been associated with adverse birth outcomes and increased risk for HIV. We compare the performance of simple inexpensive point-of-care (POC) tests to laboratory diagnosis and syndromic management of BV and TV in poor settings.
To examine the role of socioeconomic situation in influencing the risk and intensity of infection with Schistosomiasis mansoni.
To map and analyse geographical (spatial) variations of child mortality trends in mainland Tanzania.
When cardiac arrest occurs, in about 1/3 patients may suffer from fracture of ribs as a result of the traditional method of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) with strong compression of the chest wall. Consequently, there would be a marked decrease in amplitude of chest compression and expansion, thus reducing the effect of CPR. Rhythmic abdominal compression, which is a new method recently recognized to be effective for CPR, only allows the diaphragm to fall back to its original position, therefore the extent of its movement is not enough to affect lung expansion. Thus, the maneuver could not restore effective heart beat and respiration. We have invented a new equipment which is called abdominal lifting and compression equipment for CPR.
To investigate the effect of rat heme oxygenase-1 (rHO-1) gene carried by recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) on myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury in rats.
To investigate the association of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and its haplotypes of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1) gene with susceptibility to acute myocardial infarction (AMI), and to analyze association the serum levels and genotypes of PECAM-1 with AMI.
To observe the change in contents of creatine kinase isoenzyme MB (CK-MB) and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) in peripheral blood, the elevation of ST in electrocardiogram, and the result of coronary arteriography, to identify myocardial damage and acute myocardial infarction during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
To explore the effect of inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9, SB-3CT) on blood brain barrier (BBB) after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in rats.
To investigate the role of cardiac myocytes in the differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to cardiac myocytes and the biological properties in the course.
To study the strategy and process of out-hospital emergency care of acute cardiovascular events.
To investigate the mechanism of inducing apoptosis of Omi/HtrA2 in renal tubular cells with post asphyxial serum of neonate.
To assess the influence of intensive insulin therapy (IIT), as compared with conventional insulin therapy (CIT), on mortality of critically ill patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) by Meta-analysis.
To investigate the relationship between the levels of serum leptin and oxidative stress in patients with hyperglycemia crisis.
To study and quantify the relationship between dynamic lactic acid monitoring indexes and prognosis of critically ill patients in intensive care unit (ICU).
To investigate the correlation between subjective scoring and bispectral index (BIS) monitoring, and to study the feasibility of BIS monitor in assessing the depth of sedation for mechanically ventilated patients.
To explore the effects of dexamethasone on nuclear factor-KappaB (NF-KappaB) expression in brain tissue after traumatic brain injury (TBI).
To explore the role of H19 imprinting in etiology of pre-eclampsia.
To discuss the serum endoglin expression in severe pre-eclampsia and eclampsia women and their relationships.
To investigate the role of oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) and lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 (LOX-1) in pre-ecalmpsia.
To investigate the application of "Guidelines for performing fetal cardiac scan", issued by the International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology in 2006, in prenatal screening of fetal congenital heart disease (CHD).
To investigate the incidence of and clinical factors influencing neonatal birth defects from different assisted reproductive technology.
To investigate the clinical feature and strategy on diagnosis and treatment of cervical ulcer in Behcet's disease.
To determine the clinicopathologic characteristics and prognostic factors that may be used to predict the poor outcome of patients with borderline ovarian tumors.
To investigate whether the change of serum tumor markers profile after chemotherapy in epithelial ovarian carcinoma and evaluate the clinical significance.
To investigate the relationship of the metastasis-associated genes and its copy numbers variation in the highly metastatic human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line HO-8910PM.
To investigate mechanism of netrin-1 regulating invasion of extra villous trophoblasts.
To investigate the influence on developmental potential of frozen-thawed rabbit oocytes with double assisted activation followed by intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
To study the antitumor effects of photodynamic therapy (PDT) treated by ovarian cancer cell lysates in rat epithelial ovarian cancer in vivo.
To evaluate the etiology, clinicopathological characteristics, treatment and prognosis of VINIII.
To reclassify the patients with former diagnosis of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN)II, VINII-III, VINIII, Bowen disease and Bowenoid papulosis according to the 2004 modified terminology of International Society for the Study of Vulvar Disease (ISSVD) and evaluate the effects of surgical treatment.
To investigate the diagnosis and therapy of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN) and correlation to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN).
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of motherwort (herba leonuri/leonurus heterophyllus sweet) injection for preventing postpartum hemorrhage after caesarian section.
To investigate the placenta perfusion in pre-eclampsia by three-dimensional power Doppler ultrasound and analysing the clinical outcome.
To study three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), SNP-43, -19 and -63 of calpain-10 (CAPN10) gene in pregnant women with glucose metabolism disorders and their relationship with the risk of these disorders.
To study the influence of total bile acid (TBA) of maternal serum and cord blood on neonatal cardiac function in women with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP).
To investigate the effect of anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) on hormone secretion and P450 aromatase mRNA expression from cultured human luteinized granulosa cells.
To investigate the effects of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with high-risk stage I and II (early stage) endometrial cancer.
To assess the high risk factors associated with the positive margin of conization in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN).
To study the pathogenicity of Ureaplasma urealyticum serotype 3 (UU3) with different concentration in the genital tract of the mice.
To analysis the activity of transcriptional factors in endometrial cancer cell lines with different estrogen receptor subtypes.
To study anti-tumor effects on human ovarian cancer xenografted tumors in mice by constructing adenoviral expression vector containing canstatin gene and hTERT gene core promoter (AdhTERT-Can).
To investigate the effects of different culture conditions on the isolation and expansion of stem cells from second-trimester amniotic fluids.
To explore the correlation between adipocyte factors (adiponectin and visfatin) and fetus intrauterine growth.
To investigate the role of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase-2 (DDAH-2)/asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) in pathophiology of preeclampsia by detecting expression of DDAH-2 in placenta and serum plasma ADMA.
To explore the efficacy of multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) combined with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) combined with FISH in genetic analysis of chorionic villi specimen (CVS) of spontaneous abortion.
To study the effect of CD(4)(+)CD(25)(+) regulatory T(Tr) cells on dendric cells (DC) in peripheral blood and deciduas from unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA) patients.
To evaluate the decreased level of serum inhibin B (INHB) treated by gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GNRH-a) in predicting ovarian response and pregnancy in in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET).
To investigate clinical features and management of complicated or rare vulvovaginal anomalies derived from urogenital sinus malformation.
To isolate and identify the ascites-derived exosomes from patients with ovarian epithelial carcinoma, and explore the relationship between exosomes and the prognosis of ovarian epithelial carcinoma.
To study the clinical characteristic, the optimal treatments and the prognosis for the recurrence and failure of primary treatment in malignant ovarian germ cell tumors (MOGCT).
To explore the clinical-pathologic characteristics, treatment modalities and prognosis of patients with vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN).
To investigate protective effects and mechanisms of lipoxinA(4) (LXA(4)) on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) under hypoxia in vitro.
To summarize the efficacy of open stone surgery for renal and ureteral calculi, and to investigate the current indications for upper urinary tract stones treated by open stone surgery.
To study the percentage of uric acid calculus in uroliths and its metabolic character in Dongjiang River valley.
To investigate the safety and feasibility of endoscopy in treating urinary tract calculi in preschool children.
To investigate the effect of inversion-table in the treatment of lower pole renal stones.
To compare the efficacy and complication of ureteroscopic lithotripsy and ureteroscopic management for ureteral calculi after failed extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL).
To determine the effects of irrigation fluid absorption on system hemodynamics, fluid-electrolyte and hormone during mini-percutaneous nephrolithotomy.
To evaluate the early and midterm outcomes of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) compared with carotid stenting (CAS) in patients with carotid artery stenosis.
To evaluate therapeutic results of endovenous radiofrequency in combination with TriVex in treatment of venous insufficiency in lower extremities.
To observe the efficacy of perioperative combined nutritional support in patients with Crohn disease.
To discuss the feasibility of the operation of minimal invasive with gallbladder preserved via choledochoscopy.
To investigate the role of B7-H1 expression in IL-10 production, the B7-H1 and IL-10 expression levels in pancreatic carcinoma tissues and to analyze the correlation between B7-H1 expression and IL-10 level.
To compare activation and concentration of insulin, and blood glucose control in patients between insulin added into "all in one" bags and syringes at parenteral nutrition (PN).
To find out the radiologic factors predicting the outcomes of reduction of lumbar spondylolisthesis.
To evaluate and compare thoracic vertebrae morphology between patients with idiopathic and normal adolescents through MRI.
To evaluate the bone refilling in the interface between the trabecular metal (TM) acetabular shell and the bone surface according to consecutive X film measuring after surgery.
To access the expression of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) in the lung of Nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia rat model.
To investigate angiogenesis of collagen-chitosan porous scaffold, and to study survive of skin grafts on the scaffold after bilayer dermal equivalent (BDE) was transplanted on wounds with full thickness skin defects.
Successful HIV vaccine and entry inhibitor development depends on use of assay systems that closely reflect in-vivo activities. Recent reports suggest that the currently most widely used assay format, which relies on the genetically engineered target cell line TZM-bl, can fail to detect certain neutralization activities detected on primary peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)-based assay systems. In the present study, we investigate the influence the target cell context bears on HIV entry inhibition.
To evaluate cytokine-induced STAT activation in IL-7Ralpha(low) and IL-7Ralpha(high) CD8 T cells from chronically infected HIV-positive patients and investigate the potential molecular mechanism involved in the reduced IL-7Ralpha expression.
The authors aim to quantify the extent, and to assess student perception, of alcohol and tobacco use among medical students at the University of Calgary, and the relationship of these attitudes to problem drinking (according to the CAGE questionnaire).
The authors aim to identify any benefits or limitations of psychiatric residents attending a Balint-style case discussion group, to explore those experiences, to study the process of the learning experience, and to identify potential educational implications.
The authors reviewed medical student encounters during 3 years of a required psychiatry clerkship that were recorded on a web-based system of six broad competency domains (similar to ACGME-recommended domains). These were used to determine diagnoses of patients seen, clinical skills practiced, and experiences in interpersonal and communications skills, professionalism, practice-based learning and improvement, and system-based practice. The authors aim to understand how students are learning and growing in these domains and to modify the clerkship in an ongoing manner.
Attitudes of medical students toward a specialty is strongly related to their future choice of specialty. In developing countries like Pakistan, where there is a shortage of psychiatrists, there is a need to assess the effect of exposure to psychiatry on medical students.
This article discusses the importance of research training in psychiatric residency programs and makes recommendations for enhancement.
The authors summarize points for consideration generated in a National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) workshop convened to provide an opportunity for reviewers from different disciplines-specifically clinical researchers and statisticians-to discuss how their differing and complementary expertise can be well integrated in the review of intervention-related grant applications.
Knowledge of the procedural requirements for international research is not widely disseminated to investigators involved in the administration of a federal grant with a foreign component. The purpose of this article is to highlight the major challenges in administrative, procedural, and equipment management aspects of grant implementation when federal funding is involved in international collaborative research.
The National Institute of Mental Health funds institutional National Research Service Awards (NRSA) to provide postdoctoral research training. While peer-reviewed publications are the most common outcome measure utilized, there has been little discussion of how publications should be counted or what factors impact the long-term publication rates of trainees in these programs.
Medical schools and departments of psychiatry around the world face challenges in integrating science with clinical teaching. This project was designed to identify attitudes toward the integration of science in clinical teaching and address barriers to collaboration between scientists and clinical teachers.
The authors provide a progress report on a faculty practice plan that assigns a monetary value to administrative duties, teaching, scholarship, community service, and research.
The purpose of this article is to provide recommendations for writing a successful R13 conference grant proposal for the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
We aimed to investigate the potential modification of previously unrecognized surface glycoprotein(s) by alpha2,6-sialylation other than by integrins.
To investigate the efficacy of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) agonist, AVE8134, in cellular and experimental models of cardiac dysfunction and heart failure.
To elucidate the detailed mechanisms underlying the appreciable effects of JG3, a novel marine-derived oligosaccharide, on cell migration using a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line stably over-expressing heparanase.
Statin disposition and response are greatly determined by the activities of drug metabolizing enzymes and efflux/ uptake transporters. There is little information on the regulation of these proteins in human cells after statin therapy. In this study, the effects of atorvastatin and simvastatin on mRNA expression of efflux (ABCB1, ABCG2 and ABCC2) and uptake (SLCO1B1, SLCO2B1 and SLC22A1) drug transporters in Caco-2 and HepG2 cells were investigated.
The potential for topical delivery of meloxicam was investigated by examining its pharmacokinetic profiles in plasma and synovial fluid following oral and transdermal administration in Beagle dogs.
The pro-fibrogenic cytokine transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1) has attracted much attention for its potential role in the etiology of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Here, we demonstrate that MS80, a novel sulfated oligosaccharide extracted from seaweed, can bind TGF-beta1. The aim of the present study was to determine whether MS80 is capable of combating TGF-beta1-mediated pulmonary fibrotic events both in vitro and in vivo, and to investigate the possible underlying mechanisms.
To investigate the protection and the anti-oxidative mechanism afforded by chronic intermittent hypobaric hypoxia (CIHH) against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury in guinea pig hearts.
The aim of the study was to investigate the potential role of BMP6 in TGF-beta1-mediated changes in HK-2 cells.
To understand the mechanism of the transactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mediated by the adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R).
To examine whether liquiritigenin, a newly found agonist of selective estrogen receptor-beta, has neuroprotective activity against beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in rat hippocampal neurons.
To investigate the effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a potent antioxidant, on neuron differentiation of cultured mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) induced by retinoic acid (RA) in vitro. Superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons were used to study the effect of NAC on neuritogenesis.
To explore the protective role and mechanism of endogenous neuroglobin (Ngb) in neuronal cells under oxidative stress.
To test the role of the Beclin 1-dependent autophagy pathway in brain damage during cerebral ischemia.
beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) agonists are among the most potent factors regulating cardiac electrophysiological properties. Connexin 43 (Cx43), the predominant gap-junction protein in the heart, has an indispensable role in modulating cardiac electric activities by affecting gap-junction function. The present study investigates the effects of short-term stimulation of beta-AR subtypes on Cx43 expression and gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) function.
Airway hyperresponsiveness is a constant feature of asthma. The aim of the present study was to investigate airway hyperreactivity mediated by contractile and dilative receptors in an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced model of rat asthma.
Neutropenic individuals are at high risk for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA), a life-threatening infection. To evaluate the therapeutic potential of antioxidants, IPA was induced in neutropenic mice and the effect of N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) on oxidative stress levels and lung injury was analyzed.
To investigate the effect of balsalazine treatment on intestinal mucosal permeability in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis and to determine the mechanism of the balsalazine-induced changes.
To investigate the mechanism of the bone-forming effects of intermittent parathyroid hormone (PTH) administration and to search for novel molecules of bone anabolism via the PTH signaling pathway.
YCP, a novel (1,4)-alpha-D-glucan, was isolated from the mycelium of the marine filamentous fungus Phoma herbarum YS4108. In this work, we investigated a YCP-binding cellular receptor expressed by macrophages and the intracellular signal transduction pathways involved in YCP-induced macrophage activation.
Arbidol is an immunomodulator that was first developed in Russia. In this study, we report the antiviral activity of arbidol against Hantaan virus (HTNV) in vitro and in vivo.
To investigate the effects of lidamycin (LDM) on a mouse myeloma cell line (SP2/0) and human multiple myeloma cell lines (U266 and SKO-007), and provide the basis for the use of LDM in cancer therapy.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and lysosome-dependent macroautophagy (autophagy) are two major intracellular pathways for protein degradation. Recent studies suggest that proteasome inhibitors may reduce tumor growth and activate autophagy. Due to the dual roles of autophagy in tumor cell survival and death, the effect of autophagy on the destiny of glioma cells remains unclear. In this study, we sought to investigate whether inhibition of the proteasome can induce autophagy and the effects of autophagy on the fate of human SHG-44 glioma cells.
Somatostatin receptor subtype 2 (SSTR2) is the principal mediator of somatostatin's (SST) antiproliferative effects on normal and cancer cells. Therefore, we investigated whether the enhanced expression of SSTR2 could inhibit the proliferation of tumor cells, and, if so, the mechanisms that might be involved.
To apply 3.0 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to study the effects of long-term, low dose hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on the brain parenchyma of postmenopausal women.
Ethnicity has been shown to play an important role in hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment response. However, few studies have examined the treatment response of Hispanics to combination therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. The aim of this study was to compare the treatment responses of Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites (NHW) treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin for chronic HCV.
(i) The aims of this study were to report wait times for visits to US emergency departments (EDs) for acute gastrointestinal illnesses, (ii) to identify whether racial/ethnic disparities exist in wait times, and (iii) to characterize factors associated with delays in physician assessment.
This study aimed to determine whether Helicobacter pylori eradication limits the progression of precancerous changes, manifested as intestinal metaplasia (IM), in patients with reflux esophagitis using long-term esomeprazole.
Persistently high serum pancreatic enzymes in asymptomatic subjects are considered a benign idiopathic condition called "non-pathological chronic pancreatic hyperenzymemia" (CPH). However, recent studies with advanced imaging techniques have brought to light abnormal pancreatic findings in a significant proportion of these subjects. The objective of this study was to evaluate pancreatic ductal morphology by secretin-enhanced magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP-S) in subjects with CPH and compare MRCP imaging before and after secretin injection.
A dramatic rise in incidence, an aging population, and expensive palliative treatments have led to an escalating burden on clinicians managing inoperable esophageal cancer with only limited evidence of effectiveness. This study compares the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of self-expanding metal stents (SEMSs) with other palliative therapies to aid clinicians in making an evidence-based treatment choice.
Recently, a genome-wide association study showed that single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the chromosome 4q27 region containing IL2 and IL21 are associated with celiac disease. Given the increased prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) among celiac disease patients, we investigated the possible involvement of these SNPs in IBD.
A single-item indicator of disease activity over an extended period of time, the Manitoba Inflammatory Bowel Disease Index (MIBDI), is introduced and compared against several standard measures for assessing activity in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC).
Recent data suggest functional interactions between NOD2 and other receptors of the innate immune system modulating inflammatory responses. Here we analyzed the role of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR-9) gene variants with respect to susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and tested for genetic interactions with NOD2 and other susceptibility genes for Crohn's disease (CD).
Most hepatitis B virus (HBV) carriers are incidentally identified as inactive carriers (positive hepatitis B e antibody with normal alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels), but their long-time outcome and risk of cirrhosis are incompletely understood.
Anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies (ASCAs) are present in 50-60% of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and in 20-25% of their healthy relatives (HRs). The yeast, Candida albicans, has been shown to generate ASCAs, but the presence of C. albicans in the digestive tract of CD patients and their HRs has never been investigated. Therefore, we studied C. albicans carriage in familial CD and its correlation with ASCAs.
Liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease (ALD) can be complicated by abusive or "problem" drinking (PD) after transplant. There are limited data for evaluating the effect of pre-transplant abstinence on post-transplant PD. Few existing studies have included a substantial number of patients with co-existing causes of hepatic dysfunction, and the effect of PD on survival in recent European studies has been controversial. We hypothesized that a longer duration of pre-transplant abstinence would lead to less PD after transplantation. Accordingly, the objectives of this study are to analyze a North American cohort of patients with ALD with or without a secondary diagnosis of liver disease to estimate (i) the incidence of PD and its predictors, as well as (ii) the effect of PD on patient survival.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional disorder. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is a key modulator of gastrointestinal sensorimotor function. Many patients have IBS that can be difficult to treat, which has led to the development of newer agents, such as 5-HT(3) antagonists and 5-HT(4) agonists. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to estimate the efficacy of all available 5-HT agents in IBS.
Idiopathic portal hypertension (IPH) is the presence of PH in the absence of liver disease. Recently, IPH was reported in HIV patients on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). We describe for the first time the hepatic and systemic hemodynamic profile, liver stiffness, and histological features of eight patients with HIV-related IPH.
Many human epithelial cancers, particularly those with a poor prognosis, express high levels of fatty acid synthase (FASN), a key metabolic enzyme linked to synthesis of membrane phospholipids in cancer cells. Overexpression of FASN is linked with activation of the phosphatidylinositol-3'-kinase (PI3 K)/AKT pathway. However, the role of FASN in colorectal cancer (CRC) has not been fully elucidated. We investigated the expression of FASN and determined its functional association with the PI3/AKT pathway in CRC.
Elevations of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) are common and have been associated with metabolic syndrome (Met S) and cardiovascular risk. The aim of this study was to determine whether elevated ALT concentrations are predictive of Met S or cardiovascular events.
Psychosocial factors may drive people with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) to seek health care, but whether psychological factors are causally linked to IBS is controversial. One hypothesis is that IBS is a heterogeneous syndrome comprising two distinct conditions, one psychological and the other biological. However, it is unclear how many people with IBS in the community have little somatization and minimal psychosocial distress. The aim of our study was to estimate the proportion of people with IBS in a representative US community, who have low levels of somatic and psychological symptoms.
Reflux inhibitors, like the gamma-aminobutyric acid type B (GABA(B)) receptor agonist, baclofen, block transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations (TLESRs) and are proposed as an add-on therapy in patients with proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-resistant gastroesophageal reflux. However, as other mechanisms of reflux become more important in the presence of a hiatal hernia (HH), the efficacy of reflux inhibitors to reduce acid and non-acid exposure may be hampered. Therefore, we compared the effect of baclofen in patients with no HH (-HH) and those with a large HH during PPI treatment.
The effectiveness of colonoscopy in preventing colon cancer depends on adenoma detection and removal. Adequacy of bowel preparation, careful mucosal visualization, and adequate withdrawal time are known to affect adenoma detection rate (ADR). Physician fatigue, which usually increases as the day progresses, might impair ADR. The aim of this study is to assess the effect of timing of colonoscopy, morning vs. afternoon, on ADR.
The use of propofol sedation during endoscopic procedures has increased in recent years. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of nurse-administered low-dose propofol sedation for diagnostic esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).
Changing patterns in medical practice may contribute to temporal changes in the incidence of upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) complications. There are limited data on the incidence of lower GI complications in clinical practice and most studies that have been done have serious methodological limitations to inferring the actual burden of this problem. The aims of this study were to analyze time trends of hospitalizations resulting from GI complications originating both from the upper and lower GI tract in the general population, and to determine the risk factors, severity, and clinical impact of these GI events.
The efficacy, safety, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, drug-drug interactions, and administration of alvimopan for postoperative ileus are reviewed.
An overview of the emerging field of comparative effectiveness research (CER) and its relevance to pharmacists and pharmacy-based decision-makers is provided.
A case of acyclovir-induced acute renal failure in an obese patient is described.
Tenfold dosing medication errors reported to U.S. poison control centers in children younger than six years of age were evaluated.
The development and implementation of a collaborative drug therapy management (CDTM) service for inpatients receiving direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) are described.
The development and implementation of an electronically based, nurse-driven pneumococcal vaccination protocol for hospitalized patients are described.
The aim of this study was to evaluate for the interest of realistic mannequin-based simulations as a tool to assess the knowledge of emergency medicine physicians in the field of difficult tracheal intubation.
The aim of this study was to assess the value of central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO(2)) for the decision of blood transfusion in comparison with the criteria of the French guidelines for blood transfusion (2003).
As B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) is a marker of ventricular wall stress, the present study was aimed at determining whether plasma BNP concentration could predict fluid responsiveness in critically ill patients with acute circulatory failure.
Thoracic bioimpedance has been proposed for cardiac output (CO) determination and monitoring without calibration or thermodilution (ICG Monitor 862146, Philips Medical System, Philips, Suresnes, France). The accuracy and clinical applicability of this technology has not been fully evaluated in the cardiac surgery setting. We designed this prospective study to compare the accuracy of the ICG Monitor (CO(ICG)) versus pulmonary artery catheter standard bolus thermodilution (CO(PAC)) in patients after cardiac surgery or having benefited from cardiac surgery.
This review discusses variability among patients in anesthesia, due to genetic polymorphisms.
This article outlines those variants or presentations of melanoma that create diagnostic difficulty for all clinicians. Practice tips regarding clinical features or useful dermoscopic clues are included.
This article outlines the clinical and pathological features of blistering skin conditions with a particular focus on bullous impetigo, dermatitis herpetiformis, bullous pemphigoid and porphyria cutanea tarda.
This article summarises the types, clinical features, treatment and follow up of BCCs. Two cases histories are also presented that highlight the difficulties with diagnosing and treating aggressive BCC.
This article aims to highlight common dermatologic presentations where further assessment is needed to exclude an underlying systemic disease, to discuss classic cutaneous features of specific systemic diseases, and to outline rare cutaneous paraneoplastic syndromes.
This article provides an evidence based update on the role of breast MRI.
This article presents a case of community acquired MRSA infection resulting in severe osteomyelitis of the humerus, followed by a brief discussion and literature review.
Although musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) represent one of the most important occupational health issues in contemporary society, few studies have specifically investigated this problem among veterinarians.
To identify and gain an understanding of the influenza viruses circulating in wild birds in Australia.
We evaluated combinations of two commercial semen extenders and three concentrations of glycerol to determine the combination that yielded the highest post-thaw sperm motility.
To determine a reference range for serum cobalamin concentration in healthy cats in Australia using a chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay and to prospectively investigate the prevalence of hypocobalaminaemia in cats with non-alimentary tract disease.
To evaluate the treatment efficacy of a topical spray containing hydrocortisone aceponate (HCA) on dogs with flea-allergy dermatitis (FAD).
To establish reference values for activated coagulation time (ACT) in normal cats and dogs, by visual assessment of clot formation using the MAX-ACT(TM) tube.
To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of nursing intervention via telephone follow-up by examining costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
To assess whether perceptions of the swine flu outbreak predicted changes in behaviour among members of the public in England, Scotland, and Wales.
To evaluate whether mid-life marital status is related to cognitive function in later life.
To evaluate the impact of the Tanzania National Voucher Scheme on the coverage and equitable distribution of insecticide treated nets, used to prevent malaria, to pregnant women and their infants.
To assess the substernal goiter surgically approach through a neck incision and to analyze the surgical complications.
this study aims to evaluate the prevalence of hearing disorders and altered EAEP in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.
to carry out an objective analysis of the PES, with CM, before and after the injection of botulinum toxin (BT).
To check if certain glottic configurations are related to specific adjustments in the vocal tract. To use nasal and laryngeal fibroscopy to assess the frequency of supraglottic vocal tract adjustments in dysphonic women with nodules, clefts and cysts.
Describe the mechanisms involved in FB migration and how to diagnose them.
to study tissue reaction to cellulose in the dorsal nose of rabbits.
To check the performance of children with palate cleft alone (PC) in auditory processing tests. Prospective study.
To study the mortality by laryngeal cancer in Pernambuco during 2000-2004. STUDY FORMAT: Contemporary cross-sectional cohort.
The goal of the present investigation was to asses the evolution of facial paralysis caused by acute otitis media. STUDY FORMAT: Clinical-retrospective.
To analyze the P300 Long Latency Auditory Evoked Potential obtained through the use of two active electrodes positioned on Fz and Cz.
prospective study with the goal of characterizing the process of implementing a Neonatal Auditory Screening Program (NASP) at a University Hospital. To analyze hearing loss diagnostic investigations in newborns, and to present proposals for NASP improvement.
To evaluate and to characterize tinnitus in this group.
The present study aims at analyzing the alterations found in the epithelial cells present in the oral cavity lichen planus, comparing them to those found in epidermoid carcinoma.
to evaluate the role of FS for thyroid nodules management.
The aim of the present investigation is to propose a method to obtain MRI cochlear length measures from the temporal bones of cadavers.
The aim of this investigation was to study breathing, chewing, swallowing and speaking alterations present in patients with allergic rhinitis and associate it to rhinitis symptom intensity.
To associate life quality with the degree of dysphonia and professional voice use in a group of dysphonic patients.
Compare topical adrenaline solutions in different concentrations.
This study is an attempt to correlate hypozincemia and abnormal vestibular function.
A retrospective analysis was conducted to investigate the clinicopathologic features of 13 cases of oral erythroplakia and speckled leukoplakia in patients who were seen at a center specialized in stomatology and Histopathological diagnosis of oral diseases.
This paper aims at studying the audiologic characteristics of elderly with BPPV of the posterior semicircular canal.
The aim of this paper was to study the NV function and define clearly the structures of the anterior portion of the nasal cavities, mainly the region of the NV.
To evaluate measures for reducing allergen exposure as part of the treatment of allergic diseases.
To determine the difficulties to handle pain in particular with the use of morphine in order to propose some solutions.
Tumours of the ovary is rare in childhood. The aim of our work was to describe the epidemiology and histological aspects of these tumours in Togo.
Determine the prognostic significance of tumour volume and pelvic lymph node status in intermediate stage T1b1 to T2b cancers of the uterine cervix.
To conduct a quantitative assessment of red meat or processed meat consumption and kidney cancer.
To explore the association of polymorphisms in N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2), glutathione S-transferase (GST), cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2A6, and CYP 2A13 genes with susceptibility and clinicopathologic characteristics of bladder cancer in a Chinese population.
Albumin is used routinely as a plasma volume expander in cardiopulmonary bypass operations. The effect of two different concentrations of albumin in Ringer's lactate on blood viscosity was explored in this study.
To assess the influence of diabetes mellitus on early morbidity and mortality following a femoro-popliteal bypass.
To evaluate the relationship between the parameters of left ventricular diastolic function and the geometric patterns in this group of patients.
To evaluate methods to assess peripheral edema for reliability, feasibility and correlation with the classic clinical assessment of pitting edema.
To determine the effect of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) therapy on glucose control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and coexisting asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
To compare the clinicopathologic features and survival in the four breast cancer subtypes defined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) expression of estrogen receptor (ER) or progesterone receptor (PR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2): ER/PR+, Her2+; ER/PR+, Her2-; ER/PR-, Her2+; and ER/PR-, Her2-.
To evaluate the impact of laparoscopic TME on surgical and oncological outcome in a group of consecutive unselected patients.
Recent studies defend a possible prognostic and therapeutic value of the identification of microsatellite instability (MSI) in colorectal cancer. This work tries to assess the impact that the identification of MSI tumours can have in clinical practice.
The objective was to compare the short- and long-term impact of 3 different treatment modalities on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients treated for localised prostate cancer at a single centre in Catalonia, Spain.
Patients with diabetes rely on symptoms to identify hypoglycaemia. Previous data suggest patients with Type 2 diabetes develop greater symptomatic and hormonal responses to hypoglycaemia at higher glucose concentrations than non-diabetic controls and these responses are lowered by insulin treatment. It is unclear if this is as a result of insulin therapy itself or improved glucose control. We compared physiological responses to hypoglycaemia in patients with Type 2 diabetes patients treated with sulphonylureas (SUs) or insulin (INS) with non-diabetic controls (CON).
To determine if there is a worldwide seasonal pattern in the clinical onset of Type 1 diabetes.
Diabetes UK estimates a quarter of UK cases of diabetes are undiagnosed; 750,000 people have undiagnosed diabetes in addition to 2.25 million with known diabetes, but research studies examining this are contradictory. The aim was to determine the prevalence of, and risk factors for, undiagnosed diabetes in the population of England aged &gt; 50 years and to calculate the percentage of cases of undiagnosed diabetes.
The aim of the present study was to determine the diagnostic accuracy of the Neuropad sudomotor test for diabetic cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy (CAN) and diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN), the latter assessed using a multi-level diagnostic approach.
The Joint Asia Diabetes Evaluation (JADE) Program is the first web-based program incorporating a comprehensive risk engine, care protocols, clinical decision and self-management support to improve ambulatory diabetes care. The aim was to validate the risk stratification system of the JADE Program using a large prospective cohort.
The Comprehensive ICF Core Set for diabetes mellitus (DM) is a specific application of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) of the World Health Organization for clinical and research purposes involving the disorder. It represents the typical spectrum of functional problems in patients with DM. The objective of the study was to validate the Comprehensive ICF Core Set for DM from the perspective of patients. The specific aims were to explore the aspects of function and health important to patients with DM using focus group methodology and to examine to what extent these aspects are represented by the Comprehensive ICF Core Set for DM.
Obesity is associated with inflammation. Anti-inflammatory interventions such as aspirin and statins (anti-IFRx) might be a novel approach to the treatment of obesity and Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The present study was designed to determine whether exposure to anti-IFRx is associated with weight loss in T2DM patients.
The aim of this study was to assess the performance of the Continuous Research Tool (CRT) in a multicentre clinical-experimental study.
To assess treatment satisfaction and weight-related quality of life (QOL) in subjects with Type 2 diabetes treated with exenatide once weekly (QW) or twice daily (BID).
To develop the first psychometrically validated Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for in-patients (DTSQ-IP) and examine determinants of in-patient diabetes treatment satisfaction.
To determine plasma levels of apoprotein (apo) C-II and apoprotein C-III in Type 2 diabetic patients and to examine the clinical and biological factors that are associated with elevated apoC concentrations.
To ascertain if those with diabetes (and their carers) ascribe a similar level of risk to blood glucose control as healthcare professionals.
Ionic liquids are regarded as essentially "green" chemicals because of their insignificant vapor pressure and, hence, are a good alternative to the emissions of toxic conventional volatile solvents. Not only because of their attractive industrial applications, but also due to their very high stability, ionic liquids could soon become persistent contaminants of technological wastewaters and, moreover, break through into natural waters following classical treatment systems. The removal of harmful organic pollutants has forced the development of new methodologies known as advanced oxidation processes (AOPs). Among them, the Fenton and Fenton-like reactions are usually modified by the use of a higher hydrogen peroxide concentration and through different catalysts. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of hydrogen peroxide concentration on degradation rates in a Fenton-like system of alkylimidazolium ionic liquids with alkyl chains of varying length and 3-methyl-N-butylpyridinium chloride.
As emerging contaminants, transformation products of the pollutants via various environmental processes are rather unknown, and some may predominantly contribute to the environmental risks of the parent compounds. Hence, studies on transformation products complement the assessment of the environmental safety of the parent compounds. In this study, degradation experiments and toxicity tests using diclofop-methyl (DM), a widely used herbicide, and selected major transformation products were carried out in algal cultures to assess the time course of DM toxicity and its relevance in the formation of new breakdown products.
Pesticides and heavy metals pollution in soil environment has become a serious problem in many countries including China. Repeated applications of bordeaux mixture (a blend of copper sulfate and calcium hydroxide) and pyrethroid (Pys) insecticides have led to elevated copper (Cu) and Pys concentrations in vineyard surface soils. However, few studies focused on the interaction of Pys and heavy metals in the soil environment. Our previous studies had indicated the combined effect of cypermethrin (CPM) and Cu on soil catalase activity. Also, we had suggested that the addition of Cu could catalyze photo-degradation of CPM and lambda-cyhalothrin (lambda-CHT) in aqueous solution and restrain their degradation in soil. To better understand the potential influence of Cu on the fate of Pys in the soil environment, the aim of the present work was to examine the effect of Cu on the adsorption of lambda-CHT and CPM on two typical Chinese soils with different soil characteristics, which was one of the key processes controlling the fate of Pys, and to provide more information about the potential ecological risk of chemicals on the soil ecosystem. Fourier transform infrared and point charges analysis using the MOPAC program of the Gaussian system were also used to reveal the probable adsorption mechanism of lambda-CHT and CPM on soils.
The first step in the restoration of a medieval stained glass window is the evaluation of its degree of degradation. This implies the study of the chemical composition of the stained glass as well as the new mineral phases developed on its surface (patinas). Patinas are clearly related to glass composition, time, environmental conditions, microenvironments developed in local zones, bioactivity, physical and chemical factors, etc. This study was carried out on patinas developed in selected Na-rich stained glass of the Santa Maria de Pedralbes Monastery (Barcelona, Spain). The location of this monument in the city (about 5 km from the shoreline and close to the Collserola hill flank) helped to determine the environmental conditions in which patinas developed. The aim of our study was to characterize the patinas formed on the surface of the selected glass of this monastery in order to understand the role of the chemical composition of the original glass (Na-rich) as well as the environmental conditions in which they developed.
Many-if not all-organisms depend on so-called infochemicals, chemical substances in their surroundings which inform the receivers about their biotic and abiotic environment and which allow them to react adequately to these signals. Anthropogenic substances can interfere with this complex chemical communication system. This finding is called infochemical effect. So far, it is not known to what extent anthropogenic discharges act as infochemicals and influence life and reproduction of organisms in the environment because adequate testing methods to identify chemicals which show the infochemical effect and to quantify their effects have not been developed yet. The purpose of this article is to help and find suitable test designs.
The novel system of ultraviolet light-emitting diodes (UV LEDs) was studied in water disinfection. Conventional UV lamps, like mercury vapor lamp, consume much energy and are considered to be problem waste after use. UV LEDs are energy efficient and free of toxicants. This study showed the suitability of LEDs in disinfection and provided information of the effect of two emitted wavelengths and different test mediums to Escherichia coli destruction.
High-quality waters are steadily retreating worldwide. Discharge of industrial effluent in the environment again declines soil/water quality to a great extent. On the other hand, effluent reuse in agriculture could be a means to conserve natural resources by providing assured water supply for growing crops. But industrial effluents are highly variable in nature, containing a variety of substances, and all are not favorable for farming. Appraisal and developing modes of effluent reuse is therefore a prerequisite to enable its proper use in agriculture. Effluents of various industries were assessed and approaches for their use in farming were developed for a particular region in this study. As per availability of effluents, the same could be implemented in other water-scarce areas.
The Arctic holds large stores of minerals, and extracted materials are provided to the world's economy; in this sense, the Arctic issue associated with mining is not local but global. In a part of the Arctic region (the Kola Peninsula, 66-70 degrees N and 28-41 degrees E), metal levels are generally elevated in the lake sediment. There is a question as to what results in elevated metal levels-a natural process (naturally abundant minerals) or an anthropogenic process (mining and metallurgy). In terms of solving this question, Staroe lake located on the Kola Peninsula was researched as a case study.
At tropical latitudes, and especially on the semi-arid coasts of the Brazilian Northeast, the rainfall regime governs the water quality of estuaries due to the pronounced difference between the rainy and dry seasons. These changes may be responsible for seasonal changes in bioavailability of mercury (Hg) and other pollutants to the estuarine and coastal biota. Mercury bioaccumulates along estuarine-marine food chains usually result in higher concentrations in tissues of top predators and posing a risk to both marine mammals and humans alike. The Goiana River Estuary (7.5 degrees S) is a typical estuary of the semi-arid tropical regions and supports traditional communities with fisheries (mollusks, fish, and crustacean). It is also responsible for an important part of the biological production of the adjacent coastal waters.
The primary aim of this study was to explore the variations in PCDD/F levels and homologue profiles of Baltic surface sediments by comprehensively analyzing polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) in samples from a large number of sites, encompassing not only previously known hotspot areas, but also sites near other potential PCDD/F sources, in pristine reference areas (in which there was no industrial activity) and offshore sites.
The Yunnan snub-nosed monkey is one of the most endangered primates in the world. It is experiencing a range of ongoing threats and the persisting effects of past disturbances. The prospects for this species are not very optimistic because habitat corridors are severely damaged by logging, grazing, and mining. Each group of the monkeys in different areas is facing a unique variety of threats. Based on genetic analysis, Rhinopithecus bieti should be separated into three management units for conservation, of which the Mt. Laojun management unit involves the most endangered primates. Despite the fact that the vegetation on Mt. Laojun is in a relatively pristine state, only two groups of monkeys, of a total of fewer than 300, survive in the area. With this paper, we aimed to address the capacity of the monkeys' habitat at the study site and the possible reasons for the small populations.
We strive to predict consequences of genetically modified plants (GMPs) being cultivated openly in the environment, as human and animal health, biodiversity, agricultural practise and farmers' economy could be affected. Therefore, it is unfortunate that the risk assessment of GMPs is burdened by uncertainty. One of the reasons for the uncertainty is that the GMPs are interacting with the ecosystems at the release site thereby creating variability. This variability, e.g. in gene flow, makes consequence analysis difficult. The review illustrates the great uncertainty of results from gene-flow analysis.
To assess the antitumour activity, safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of continuous daily sunitinib dosing in patients with imatinib-resistant/intolerant gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) and to assess morning dosing versus evening dosing.
We evaluated in vivo the effect of intraperitoneal injections of the Ras inhibitor S-trans, trans-farnesylthiosalicyclic acid (FTS) on Ras activation and the development of preneoplastic liver lesions in rats receiving weekly diethylnitrosamine (DEN) injections for 16weeks. Western blotting, quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry, Tunel and caspase activity assays were used.
Patient-based reporting of symptoms is increasingly important in providing treatment toxicity information. However, observer-based scoring systems such as the CTCAEs which incorporate the LENT-SOMA scales are not adapted for patient-based reporting. We aim to (1) report the late toxicity in patients following head and neck radiotherapy using a LENT-SOMA patient-based questionnaire, (2) describe how the responses help to improve the questionnaire and (3) adapt the questionnaire for patient reporting using CTCAEs.
The purpose of this study was to show if constraint induced movement therapy (CIMT) is effective in a Turkish stroke patient population and whether the effectiveness could be measured by a different evaluation tool, i.e. Kocaeli Functional Evaluation Test (KFET).
The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of intervention delivered by Speech and Language Pathologists/Therapists targeting dysarthric speech in children resulting from acquired brain injury.
There is paucity of longitudinal studies exploring motor recovery and quality of life (QoL) among Nigerian-African stroke survivors. This study assessed the trend of motor function and QoL as well as relationship between the two constructs among Nigerian stroke survivors over a period of 6 months.
To discuss the emergence of robotic surgery in gynecologic oncology and describe the growth of robotic surgery in a university medical center and a community based practice.
The causal treatment of chronic pruritus is not always possible or effective necessitating symptomatic antipruritic therapy. Antihistamines are the only drugs approved for the treatment of chronic pruritus, but they are rarely effective at standard doses. The aim of this investigation was to describe the efficacy and safety of high-dosage antihistamine treatment in patients with chronic pruritus of different origin.
To update the previous systematic review of the use of clopidogrel in combination with aspirin for patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS), investigating the optimal duration of treatment and effects of withdrawal from treatment.
The aim of the present study is to analyze the prevalence and oncopotency of high risk type HPV16 and 18 in cervical lesions.
To determine the practices of nurses and midwives and their attitude toward breast self-examination (BSE).
To study the impact of delay in inguinal lymph node dissection (LND) in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis, who have indications for LND at the time of presentation.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the leading malignancies worldwide. CRC has been reported to show geographical variation in its incidence, even within areas of ethnic homogeneity. The aim of this study is to identify K-ras gene mutations in CRC patients among the Kashmiri population, and to assess whether they are linked with the clinicopathological parameters.
The observed differences in cancer incidence are mainly due to different individuals and social risk factors. This study aims to demonstrate the characteristics of female genital malignancies according to the pathological records in Tehran, Iran.
To evaluate tumors of the calcaneum, which were seen over a 12-year period.
To assess the functional and visual outcomes after primary lens-sparing pars plana vitrectomy for Stage 4 ROP.
To review the epidemiological characteristics, microbiological profile, and treatment outcome of patients with suspected microbial keratitis.
To compare the psychosocial consequences of horizontal comitant strabismus in children between the families of urban and rural India.
The tear ascorbate owing to its high concentration, functions as an effective antioxidant against the oxidative damage of cornea. Contact lens wearers (CLW) are prone to oxidative stress due to the lens-induced hypoxic conditions. A pilot study was done to compare the tear ascorbic acid level and the total antioxidant capacity give as in normal and CLW.
To determine the magnitude and risk factors of diabetic retinopathy (DR).
To determine vitamin A-first dose supplement coverage in children aged 12-23 months and to find out its correlates with selected variables.
To investigate the cytotoxicity of TRA-8, an antibody that specifically binds death receptor 5, alone and in combination with chemotherapy, using an ex vivo human ovarian cancer model.
Although platinum-based chemotherapy remains the cornerstone for treatment of ovarian cancer, some patients are resistant to the treatment and will therefore not benefit from the standard platinum-based chemotherapy. Preclinical and clinical data have suggested a potential use of excision repair cross-complementation group 1 enzyme (ERCC1) as a molecular predictor of clinical resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy. Excision repair cross-complementation group 1 enzyme is a key enzyme in the nucleotide excision repair pathway which is involved in the DNA repair mechanisms in tumor cells damaged by treatment with platinum agents. The primary aim of the present study was to investigate if immunohistochemical expression of ERCC1 protein was associated with resistance to standard combination carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy in newly diagnosed ovarian cancer patients.
To determine the rate of occult malignancy in patients undergoing prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in Northern Sydney.
To assess the antitumor efficacy and safety of 2 treatment modalities: intraperitoneal carboplatin combined with intravenous (IV) paclitaxel.
Central nervous system metastases are believed to be becoming more clinically evident as long-term survival for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) and primary peritoneal cancer (PPC) has improved. Our objective was to report our experience with managing brain metastatic disease (BMD) in patients with EOC and PPC.
The study compares the perioperative morbidity and mortality rates of elderly (&gt;or=70 years) and younger (&lt;70 years) patients with endometrioid endometrial cancer.
Preoperative and intraoperative assessments of myometrial invasion (MI) are commonly used for planning surgical procedures such as dissection of the para-aortic node; however, the assessments often differ from the final diagnosis determined by pathological examination. The present study evaluated the accuracy of preoperative and intraoperative assessments of MI.
The aim of this retrospective analysis was to assess whether parameters derived from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) provide incremental prognostic value compared with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage in cervix cancer patients treated with curative intent using concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
To determine the proportion of patients with tumor response, the proportion who survived progression-free for at least 6 months (progression-free survival &gt;or= 6 months), and the frequency and severity of toxicities of patients with recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix treated with erlotinib.
Potential intermediate end points were analyzed in the combined New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union (NIS) and the Latin American Screening (LAMS) study cohorts.
To assess the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel and cisplatin on long-term (5-year) survival of patients with stage IB2 to IIB cervical cancer.
The present study reviews the frequency of intestinal complications in patients having undergone pelvic exenteration in our department between July 1999 and June 2008.
To describe the combined surgical technique of laparoscopic radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy (LRH + LPL) for cervical cancers and summarize our experiences in prevention and treatment of complications, so as to provide strategies to prevent and appropriately manage the complications that may occur during these procedures.
Sixty years after exenterative surgery was introduced into gynecologic oncology, the indications and contraindications, techniques, and adjuvant therapies after exenteration are controversially discussed between gynecologic oncologists.
To review the value of ureteric catheterization in extensive debulking surgery in women with disseminated ovarian cancer.
To demonstrate the feasibility of using a computerized system to detect the onset of a seizure and, in response, initiate Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) in patients with medically refractory epilepsy.
This study examined the effect of consuming carbohydrate- (CHO) electrolyte solution on running performance after different-glycemic-index (GI) meals.
To investigate whether L-cys (5 mg/kg) intraperitoneal administration can ameliorate modulated total antioxidant status (TAS), protein concentration, and the activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), (Na+,K+)-ATPase, and Mg2+-ATPase in rat brain after 2 and 3 hr of forced swimming.
This study sought to investigate the mechanism of restenosis and the predictive value of post-procedural minimum stent area (MSA) in the side branch (SB) after coronary bifurcation stenting.
To evaluate the longer-term outcomes for rescue percutaneous coronary intervention (R-PCI).
We examined whether distinct monocyte subsets contribute in specific ways to myocardial salvage in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
This study sought to identify electrocardiographic (ECG) criteria that are associated with initiation of torsades de pointes (TdP) in patients with acquired (a-) and congenital (c-) long QT syndrome (LQTS).
The goal of this study was to assess the predictive value of myocardial perfusion imaging with (13)N-ammonia positron emission tomography (PET) and coronary flow reserve (CFR) on long-term prognosis in patients with suspected myocardial ischemia.
We sought to evaluate the outcomes and identify risk factors for mortality after heart transplantation (HT) for congenital heart disease (CHD) in infants, children, and adults.
The aim of this study was to compare the electrophysiologic substrate in ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM) patients with and without sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (SMVT).
To assess the value of searching for unpublished data by exploring the extent to which Cochrane reviews include unpublished data and by evaluating the quality of unpublished trials.
To study variations in the number of times trials of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) were cited, and which characteristics of trials predicted the number of citations and the impact factors of journals in which articles were published.
To estimate the extent to which the practice of periodically updating meta-analyses causes inflation of the type I error and then to compare the estimate with the inflation caused by publication bias. We also present a simple method to adjust for the inflation associated with updating meta-analyses.
Systematic reviews of prognostic factors for low back pain vary substantially in design and conduct. The objective of this study was to identify, describe, and synthesize systematic reviews of low back pain prognosis, and explore the potential impact of review methods on the conclusions.
To illustrate the potential and challenges of the simultaneous analysis of a network of trials, using as a case study the investigation of the relative effectiveness of four topical fluoride treatments and two control interventions (placebo and no treatment) in preventing dental caries in children.
To develop and evaluate a prototype measure (OA-DISABILITY-CAT) for osteoarthritis research using item response theory (IRT) and computer-adaptive test (CAT) methodologies.
To derive expressions for the standard errors (SEs) and coefficients of variation (CV) of the threshold number needed to treat (NNT(t)) and the minimum target event risk for treatment (MERT).
To evaluate whether different categorization strategies for introducing continuous variables in multivariable logistic regression analysis results in prognostic models that differ in content and performance.
To investigate whether school-meal observations influenced children's 24-hour dietary recalls.
Risk difference (RD) is often estimated from relative association measures generated by meta-analysis and a particular group's baseline risk. We describe a problematic situation in using this approach.
In diagnostic accuracy studies, the reference standard may be imperfect or not available in all patients. We systematically reviewed the proposed solutions for these situations and generated methodological guidance.
Objective and indirect evidence was used to determine whether required author contribution forms were associated with a decrease in author counts in four major general medicine journals (British Medical Journal [BMJ], Journal of the American Medical Association [JAMA], Canadian Medical Association Journal [CMAJ], and the Lancet). The number of authors listed per article before and after the introduction of explicit author contribution requirements were counted and compared with that found for the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) that did not require such disclosure. The primary hypothesis was that author counts decreased more in the BMJ, CMAJ, JAMA, and the Lancet after introduction of the rules than they did in the NEJM.
To develop a classification system (CS) for a diabetes-specific preference-based measure of health titled the Diabetes Utility Index (DUI).
While a large body of descriptive work has thoroughly investigated the clinical correlates of atypical depression, little is known about its fundamental origins. This study examined atypical depression from an attachment theory framework. Our hypothesis was that, compared to adults with melancholic depression, those with atypical depression would report more anxious-ambivalent attachment and less secure attachment. As gender has been an important consideration in prior work on atypical depression, this same hypothesis was further tested in female subjects only.
There is growing interest in the utility of nonpharmacologic treatments for mood symptoms, including mood elevation and depression associated with bipolar disorders. The purpose of this research was to provide preliminary data on the safety, effectiveness, and acceptability of adjunctive acupuncture in the acute treatment of hypomania and depression associated with bipolar disorder.
Excessive daytime sleepiness, hypnagogic-hypnopompic hallucinations, sleep paralysis, and cataplexy are symptoms associated with narcolepsy. Recent findings indicate that anxiety disorders also are associated with excessive daytime sleepiness, hypnagogic-hypnopompic hallucinations, and sleep paralysis. These observations suggest a possible relationship between anxiety disorders and narcolepsy. Cataplexy is considered the most specific symptom of narcolepsy, but its association with anxiety disorders is unknown. This preliminary investigation examined the prevalence and types of cataplexy in patients with primary anxiety disorders.
Although atypical antipsychotic agents have been found effective in the augmentation of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) for treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in short-term trials, there are few data on the effectiveness and safety of these agents in clinical settings over the long term.
The authors review the genetic, molecular, neuroimaging, and clinical (systemic, neurologic, and psychiatric) manifestations of the premutation carrier state (55-200 CGG repeats) of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene.
To ascertain the impact of treatment with citalopram on irritability, apathy, delusions, and hallucinations in nondepressed behaviorally disturbed Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients.
Lurasidone is a novel psychotropic agent with high affinity for D(2) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, as well as for receptors implicated in the enhancement of cognition and mood and the reduction of negative symptoms (5-HT(7), 5-HT(1A), and alpha(2c)). The objective of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of lurasidone in patients hospitalized for an acute exacerbation of DSM-IV-defined schizophrenia.
To assess the benefit and harm of exercise training in adults with clinical depression.
To demonstrate how several polymorphisms previously associated with the efficacy of the novel antipsychotic iloperidone could be used together to predict clinical response and provide practical information for individualized treatment.
Pegylated interferon (PegIFN) and ribavirin (RBV) treatment for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection can induce depressive episodes. Personality traits have been associated with mood disorders. The aim of this study was to evaluate the personality profile as a risk factor for induced depression by PegIFN and RBV treatment in patients with HCV.
The aim of this study was to examine the long-term trajectories and interrelationships of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptom clusters (intrusion, avoidance, and hyperarousal) in clinical and nonclinical groups of war veterans.
To evaluate long-term safety and efficacy of ziprasidone.
Evidence suggests that there is an increase in the suicide rate following incidents of celebrity suicide in different countries, but there are no data on the overall suicide risk across countries. The duration of increased suicide rates is usually assumed to be on a monthly basis, but the weekly increase remains uncertain. This study aims at estimating the risk for suicide after the suicide deaths of entertainment celebrities in Asia during the first 4 weeks after the celebrity suicides and on a weekly basis.
Lithium, a first-line drug for the treatment of bipolar depression, has recently been shown to regulate glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a kinase that is involved in the phosphorylation of the tau protein. Since hyperphosphorylation of tau is a core pathological feature in Alzheimer's disease, lithium-induced inhibition of GSK-3 activity may have therapeutic effects in Alzheimer's disease. In the current study, we tested the effect of short-term lithium treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
To evaluate gingival recession changes after six months of brushing with an oscillating-rotating power toothbrush (PT) or an ADA reference manual toothbrush (MT).
The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of different surface treatments on the shear bond strength (SBS) of a resin modified glass ionomer cement (RMGIC) to dentin.
The aim of this study was to assess the influence of surface texture and etching technique on surface roughness (Ra) and bond strength (BS) to enamel and to determine if a correlation exists between them.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the carious dentin removal efficacy of new rotary polyamide burs capable of selectively removing infected dentin without removing sound dentin.
The purpose of this study was to compare bone healing and coronal bone remodeling following both immediate and delayed placement of titanium dental implants in extraction sockets.
The aim of this study was to compare sizes of the first instrument with or without a taper that binds at the apical constriction of a root canal after coronal flaring.
The aims of this study were to determine the prevalence of dental caries in three to four-year-old children born pre-term and with a low birth weight (PLBW) to be compared with normal birth-weight children (NBW) and further to investigate the impact of relative risk factors on the development of dental caries in primary teeth.
The present study was conducted with the objective of assessing the dental caries status of asthmatic patients in the age group of 11-25 years and to examine the possible association of these conditions to various aspects of bronchial asthma and its management.
To determine the association of impacted maxillary canines with other developmental dental anomalies and compare them with a control population and to compare palatally and labially impacted canine associated anomalies.
To determine signs and symptoms associated with teething, parental beliefs about teething, and the effects of socioeconomic status on teething in Nigerian children.
The aim of this article is to review the clinical and biological features underlying the development and progression of radiation caries.
The aim of this paper is to present a review and discussion of the current status of stem cell research with regard to tooth generation.
The purpose of this review is to describe the current status of smoking cessation initiatives in the dental profession.
The purpose of this case report is to describe the clinical procedure for fabricating fiber-reinforced composite (FRC) onlay composite resin restorations using a FRC as the substructure.
To illustrate the psychological effect of grievances and negligence litigation on doctors sued by Legal Medicine Organization Complaints Commissions.
The purpose of this study was to compare the use of text versus video as an educational tool for laparoscopic training, through a randomized controlled trial.
To study the effect of robotic surgery on the surgical approach to endometrial cancer in a gynecologic oncology center over a short time.
To characterize the insoluble particulate matter generated during hysteroscopic monopolar and bipolar electrosurgery.
To present our initial experience with single port-access laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (SPA-LAVH) by use of a wound retractor and a glove.
To compare outcomes in patients with symptomatic uterine myomas who underwent laparoscopic (LPS) or minilaparotomic (MLPT) myomectomy.
To evaluate the effect of hysteroscopy in the treatment of caesarean section scar pregnancy.
To determine whether transvaginal hysterosalpingo-contrast sonography (HyCoSy) with a new dedicated contrast-enhanced ultrasound technique, can contribute to accurate diagnosis of tubal occlusion.
To estimate the feasibility of preoperative ultrasound evaluation of the umbilical region in patients undergoing laparoscopy with a previous history of abdominal surgery.
To estimate obstetrical complications at term after hysteroscopic metroplasty for septate uterus.
To estimate the prevalence, 1-year regression rate, and clinical significance of endometrial polyps in women aged 45 to 50 years.
To assess the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic bowel resections for endometriosis performed by gynecologic surgeons.
To evaluate the efficacy of levonorgestrel intrauterine systems (LNG-IUS) in obese women with AUB on anticoagulant therapy.
To investigate the effects of instrument-assisted cross-fiber massage (IACFM) on tissue-level healing of knee medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries.
To quantify and compare electromyographic signal amplitude of the gluteus maximus and gluteus medius muscles during exercises of varying difficulty to determine which exercise most effectively recruits these muscles.
To determine the short-term effects of Kinesio Taping, applied to the cervical spine, on neck pain and cervical range of motion in individuals with acute whiplash-associated disorders (WADs).
(1) To assess the effect of a 4-week intervention with a full-length insert on functional outcomes in patients with midfoot arthritis; (2) to examine the effect of the custom molded three-quarter-length (3Q) and full-length (FL) carbon graphite insert on plantar loading in patients with midfoot arthritis.
In infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), somatic growth and pulmonary development are key issues beyond the time of intensive care treatment. The aim of the study was to investigate the somatic growth and pulmonary function after discharge and to compare CDH patients with a group of matched controls.
To identify factors associated with survival in patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO).
Anomalies of the aortic arch (vascular rings) are uncommon anomalies in which preferred strategies for diagnosis and treatment may vary among institutions. In this study, we report a description of our approach and review of our 38-year experience in patients surgically treated for vascular rings.
The cause of pectus excavatum has been hypothesized to be overgrowth of the costal cartilage. According to this theory, the length of costal cartilages must be longer in the side of deep depression in asymmetric patients. To challenge this hypothesis, we measured the lengths of ribs and costal cartilages and investigated lateral differences.
The aims of this study are as follows:
Treatment modalities for achalasia are evolving and remain controversial. Herein, we report the relative efficacy and outcomes after dilatation or myotomy in children with achalasia.
Long-term outcome and quality of life in omphalocele (OC) studies are mainly focused on cosmetic disorders with the abdominal scar and gastrointestinal disorders. The aim of this study was to compare long-term mortality, morbidity, and quality of life between patients with minor and giant OCs.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by several diseases can trigger oxidative stress. During laparoscopy, increased intraabdominal pressure caused by pneumoperitoneum may lead to splanchnic ischemia followed by reperfusion because of deflation. Because ischemia reperfusion creates oxidative stress, in this study, we aimed to investigate the oxidative-antioxidative status of the pediatric patients with laparoscopic surgery.
The ultrasound-guided percutaneous technique of Hickman line insertion has not been widely adopted in pediatric surgical practice. We wished to review our own experience of using this technique for insertion into the internal jugular vein.
The effects of anxiety on the patient and his/her family are known to be the main factors that influence health recovery in child surgery. When the whole family can be prepared and supported by psychologic intervention, the damage to child behavior and family anxiety is attenuated.
The relationship between postoperative enterocolitis (EC) and Hirschsprung's disease (HD) combined with hypoganglionosis (HYP) has not been thoroughly reported elsewhere. The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence of EC after operation in children with HD combined with HYP and to identify new strategies to prevent postoperative EC.
Intraperitoneal bowel perforation may occur in utero as a result of a variety of abnormalities and typically results in sterile meconium ascites, pseudocysts, and/or calcification in the fetus. On the other hand, extraperitoneal bowel perforation in intrauterine life is extremely rare. The object of this report is to present our experience of prenatal extraperitoneal rectal perforation, defining the clinical presentation, management, and progress.
In this study, we compared the skin adhesive 2-octylcyanoacrylate to subcuticular suture for closure of pediatric inguinal hernia incisions to determine if skin adhesive improves wound cosmesis, shortens skin closure time, and lowers operative costs.
Congenital fourth branchial arch anomalies are uncommon entities, heretofore described only in case reports, affecting primarily children, and typically presenting as a cervical inflammatory process. The aim of the study was to collect appropriate data on the diagnosis, treatment, and outcome of this condition and to suggest guidelines for its management.
The aim of the study is to increase clinical awareness of torsion of wandering spleen (WS) in childhood and the need of a rapid diagnosis.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of immediate dentin sealing (IDS) using total-etch or self-etch dentin adhesives on microleakage and microtensile bond strength.
To in a longitudinal study explore the relation between FA status in mothers and infants from an unselected cohort of prematures, not requiring intensive care.
To analyze the results of the surgical treatment of proximal femoral fractures secondary to metastatic bone disease, in terms of quality of life improvement and survival.
Several studies have analyzed big endothelin-1 as a marker of mortality in patients with severe heart failure (HF). However, it has not proven prognostic value in patients with moderately symptomatic functional class. Our objective was to evaluate, in a 24 months follow-up, the prognostic power of big endothelin-1 in patients with HF and moderately deteriorated functional class.
The clinical course of B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients is highly heterogeneous and the prognosis of these patients is difficult to predict. In this study, we analysed two new prognostic indexes proposed by the MDACC and GIMEMA group in a random population of B-CCL patients.
Our aim was to study the episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) in cirrhotic patients older than 65 years. Their clinical characteristics were compared with a cohort of cirrhotic patients with SBP.
This study aimed to demonstrate that bench model training is a feasible approach to teaching surgical skills in Ethiopia.
Perceived abuse or harassment during residency has a negative impact on residents' health and well-being. This issue pertains not only to Western countries, but also to those in Asia. In order to launch strong international preventive measures against this problem, it is necessary to establish the generality and cultural specificity of this problem in different countries. Therefore, we investigated mistreatment among resident doctors in Japan.
This study aimed to resolve the following questions. How are interruptions and numbers of words distributed in simulated consultations? Do they correlate with set variables (e.g. gender, scenario) or outcome variables (e.g. grade)?
To increase the entrapment efficiency of doxycycline (DXY)-loaded poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA):poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL) nanoparticles by up to 70% by varying the different formulation parameters such as polymer ratio, amount of drug loading (w/w), solvent selection, electrolyte addition and pH in the formulation.
We evaluated the effect of buckypaper (BP) on cancer and primary cell lines in vitro and in vivo in laboratory rats. BP is an innovative material with interesting physical/chemical properties that has possible pharmacological and prosthetic employment. Given that precautions need to be taken where carbon nanotubes are injected into human body for drug delivery, as contrast agent-carrying entities for MRI or as the material of a new prosthesis generation, we assessed the toxicity of BP carbon nanotubes. BP has structural resemblance to asbestos, whose toxicity has been linked to cancer.
To provide a summary of the different experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI) designed under both in vivo and in vitro conditions. A comprehensible review of the specific types of brain lesions induced, as well as the technical details to reproduce each model at the laboratory is given.
We report a comparative study on the mRNA expression of ErbB receptor tyrosine kinases, and in particular ERBB4 transcript variants, in two common paediatric brain tumours: medulloblastoma (MB) and pilocytic astrocytoma (PA).
The objective of the present study was to verify the correlation of chromosomes 1p and 19q status and expressions of O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), p53 and Ki-67 in diffuse gliomas of World Health Organization grades II and III.
Increased endothelial caveolae leading to transcytosis of plasma proteins is associated with blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown and cerebral oedema in brain injury. Increased expression of caveolin-1alpha (Cav-1), an integral caveolar membrane protein, was reported in endothelium of arterioles and veins with BBB breakdown to fibronectin post injury. In this study the phosphorylation state of Cav-1 and its association with BBB breakdown was determined in the rat cortical cold injury model over a period of days 0.5-6 post lesion.
Considering the specific situation of psychotherapy in Austria with its wide range of different therapeutic methods which are accredited by law, we investigated their respective level of familiarity and the connotative associations of future therapists and of a sample group of the lay public regarding the different schools.
Aneurysms originating from perforating branches of the middle cerebral artery are quite rare. Most of them arise from the lenticulostriate arteries, frequently located within the basal ganglia. We report a perforating artery aneurysm that was entirely embedded within the limen insulae.
We describe a case of an acute confusional state associated with a right parietal dural arteriovenous fistula.
Thorotrast was used as a contrast medium in clinical practice until the 1960s for outlining cerebral abscess cavities and ventricular cavities, and for angiography. Gliosarcomas, meningiomas, and schwannomas have been reported previously, as has Thorotrast-associated angiosarcoma, typically in the liver. A unique case of a primary intracerebral well-differentiated angiosarcoma in a 68-year-old man with a history of colocalized exposure to Thorotrast is described. This may be the first case of a primary angiosarcoma in the brain.
Neurinomas of the hypoglossal nerve are very rare. They are mostly located intracranially or combined intra- and extracranially, resulting in the so-called dumbbell shape. The isolated extracranial localization of the neurinoma of the hypoglossal nerve adjacent to the cranial base as described in this case report is extremely rare.
Surgical biopsy of isolated infundibular lesions is indicated in patients who are symptomatic or whose imaging suggests a treatable lesion. Early therapy can prevent irreversible neurological or endocrinological damage and, potentially, metastasis. These considerations justify the small risk associated with surgery.
We present a case of syringomyelia attributed to a transverse thoracic arachnoid web at T4. The cerebrospinal fluid pressure caudal to the web was higher than the cerebrospinal fluid pressure rostral to the web, causing a syrinx in the thoracic and cervical spinal cord above the web.
The optimal management of seizures associated with cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) is unclear. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of surgery in the management of CCM-associated seizures.
The lateral supraorbital approach for safely and completely removing olfactory groove meningiomas was assessed.
The aim of this study was to assess the outcome of cranial nerve and endocrine function after transsphenoidal decompression for symptomatic cavernous sinus (CS) meningioma.
To evaluate the applicability of low-field intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging (iMRI) during transsphenoidal surgery of pituitary macroadenomas.
This study was conducted to determine whether arachnoid tissue or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sampling is valuable for risk stratification in children with posterior fossa brain tumors.
Stereotactic radiosurgery has been used for nearly 2 decades to treat hemangioblastomas, particularly those that are in surgically inaccessible locations or that are multiple, as is common in von Hippel-Lindau disease. There is a paucity of long-term published radiosurgical treatment outcomes, particularly for spinal lesions, in a large patient population. The purpose of this study was to provide a long-term retrospective evaluation of radiosurgical hemangioblastoma treatment effectiveness, with a special emphasis on the relatively recent use of frameless, image-guided radiosurgery in the treatment of spinal lesions.
The purpose of this study was to assess whether back pain is improved with surgical treatment compared with nonoperative management in adults with scoliosis.
This study was conducted to investigate the efficacy of treating central or paramedian disc herniations of the upper lumbar levels, including the thoracolumbar junction, through the oblique paraspinal approach. We published a technical case report on this subject in 2004.
To evaluate the efficacy of radicular decompression in lumbar spinal stenosis using a microendoscopic technique.
The X-Stop Interspinous Process Decompression System (St. Francis Medical Technologies, Concord, CA) is an interspinous device used with increasing frequency in the treatment of degenerative lumbar spine conditions. To date, limited data are available on complications observed in association with X-Stop procedures, and even less information exists on their underlying causes. The aim of this study was to analyze a series of complications occurring at a single institution and their potential causes and propose an anatomic scoring system that may help to classify patients and prevent complications.
To assess the value of an interactive visualization method for detecting the offending vessels in neurovascular compression syndrome in patients with facial spasm and trigeminal neuralgia. Computer graphics models are created by fusion of fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition and magnetic resonance angiography.
To evaluate unusual possible causes and clinical presentations of hemifacial spasm (HFS).
Germline mutations in 3 genes have been found in familial cases of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs). We previously discovered somatic and germline truncating mutations in the KRIT1 gene, supporting the "2-hit" mechanism of CCM lesion formation in a single lesion. The purpose of this study was to screen for somatic, nonheritable mutations in 3 more lesions from different patients and identify the cell type(s) in which somatic mutations occur.
Virtual histology-intravascular ultrasound (VH-IVUS) has been reported to be useful in detecting the components of coronary plaques in vivo. Recently, the application of VH-IVUS to peripheral interventions has been evaluated. The aim of this study was to examine the extent to which the necrotic core of carotid plaques could be assessed accurately by VH-IVUS compared with histopathology.
Gliomas are the most common type of primary intracranial tumor. Although tumor grade predicts the clinical course of most patients, molecular characteristics of individual tumors have emerged as important prognostic factors for patients with gliomas. Reduced expression of p27 protein is known as an independent prognostic marker in a large variety of cancers and is associated with an unfavorable prognosis. It is believed that phosphorylation of p27 on Ser10 has been shown to be required for the binding of CRM1, a carrier protein for nuclear export. This study assessed whether CRM1, Ser10-phosphorylated p27, and p27 correlated with each other, with glioma pathological stage, and with patient outcome.
Persistent pain originating from a dysfunctional lumbar motion segment poses significant challenges in the clinical arena. Although the predominance of the existing spine literature has addressed nerve root compression as the principal cause of pain, it is equally likely that a stretch mechanism may be responsible for all or part of the pathology.
Although elevated hemodynamics has been speculated to play a key role in intracranial aneurysm (IA) initiation, little is known about the specific hemodynamic microenvironment that triggers aneurysmal vascular degradation. We previously demonstrated maladaptive remodeling characteristic of IA initiation occurring in hemodynamic regions of combined high wall shear stress (WSS) and high WSS gradient near the apex of an experimentally created carotid bifurcation. This study examines whether this remodeling recapitulates the molecular changes found in IAs and whether molecular changes also correspond to specific hemodynamic environments.
Our previous studies demonstrated that simvastatin promotes neurological functional recovery after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rat; however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate the anti-inflammatory effect of simvastatin by measuring the level of cytokines and activation of glial cells.
This study was designed to investigate the long-term effects of simvastatin treatment after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats.
The optimal management of spinal column metastatic disease is controversial. Local chemotherapy delivery systems allow targeted high-dose adjuvant therapy. We evaluated whether injection of OncoGel paclitaxel-releasing biodegradable polymer (Protherics, Inc., West Valley City, UT) into the tumor resection cavity at the time of surgery would improve the efficacy of surgical resection with or without external beam radiotherapy (XRT) in a rat model of spinal column metastases.
To investigate whether the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) possesses the essential psychometric characteristics to measure depressive symptoms in people with visual impairment.
There are significant inconsistencies in accounts in textbooks of the fitting in 1887 of a device resembling a scleral contact lens. The aim of this study was to establish the facts of this case and to provide an overview of the subsequent clinical performance of blown scleral shells and lenses.
To compare visual function with the Bausch &amp; Lomb PureVision multifocal contact lens to monovision with PureVision single vision contact lenses.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the quantity and identify the proteins extracted from two different types of silicone hydrogel contact lenses by several multipurpose care solutions after 1 day of wear.
Approximately, 20.5 million Americans (17.2%) older than 40 years have a cataract in at least one eye, and rates are expected to rise to over 30 million by 2020. Wearing sunglasses, especially early in life, may reduce the risk of cataracts. Meanwhile, little is known about the prevalence of wearing sunglasses in the United States, especially in areas with high ultraviolet radiation. The objective of this study was to assess the prevalence and predictors of wearing sunglasses in public outdoor recreation settings.
Although the treatment of symptomatic convergence insufficiency (CI) with base-in (BI) prism in adults has a strong theoretical foundation, there have been very few studies addressing its efficacy. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the application of BI prism, using a novel progressive addition lens design which incorporates BI prism in the near portion only, could help alleviate the symptoms in presbyopes with CI.
To determine whether contact lenses designed for orthokeratology (OK) are colonized by greater numbers of bacteria compared with standard (alignment fitted) design rigid gas permeable lenses before and after lens wear.
This study investigates the relationship between blinking, tear film break-up, and ocular symptoms for normal and dry eye subjects performing four different visual tasks.
To determine the on-eye effect of spherical and toric contact lens design on higher-order aberrations (HOA).
Various systems have been proposed for quantifying arrangements of colored caps in panel tests of color vision. We examine Vingrys and King-Smith's (Vingrys and King-Smith. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 1988;29:50-63) computed values for their different numerical indices derived and propose a metric for interpreting these index values. Our approach is based on performance of color-normals when angular subtenses of the panel caps are reduced by changing the test distance.
The tear film is essential for the integrity of the ocular surface. In ocular diseases such as dry eye syndrome (DES), tear film osmolarity is increased relative to normal physiological conditions. DES can be caused by deficiency in lachrymation, hyperevaporation, or surface alterations. Carnitines, shown to have osmoregulatory properties, are thought to regulate tear film osmolarity, thus protecting the corneal surface from damage. We investigated the presence of carnitine in tears, compared tear carnitine concentrations in healthy subjects and in DES patients and speculate on carnitine's potential role as a protective agent in the tear film.
The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of the AIGIS(RX) antibacterial envelope (TyRx Pharma, Inc., Monmouth Junction, NJ, USA) designed to reduce device-related infections by incorporating minocycline and rifampin in a controlled release polymer.
The aims of this article are to describe a variety of commonly used sedation and analgesic agents and to provide guidance as to their optimal use following LTR.
Turner syndrome encompasses several chromosomal abnormalities and includes a typical clinical manifestation. While common somatic symptoms are often described, neuropsychiatric alterations are rare and not frequently mentioned in the literature.
The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of mental disorders among prisoners with a short prison term.
The study aimed at evaluating prevalence and risk factors of suicidal behaviour of elderly psychiatric inpatients based on the German psychiatric basic documentation system (DGPPN-BADO).
The aim of this study was a systematic literature review of cost-of-illness studies for schizophrenia in Germany.
Evaluation of the relationship between antiandrogenic therapy of sexual offenders and home leave steps in a forensic psychiatric hospital.
1. People with mental disorders still have severe health problems after their two-year temporary leave/retirement. 2. About one third of these insurants are generally interested in being reintegrated into their jobs. 3. Their motivation for reintegration depends on their age and their individual health status.
This secondary data analysis study examines the relationship between maternal sociodemographic variables, life events, chronic stressors, including asthma control and management and environmental stressors, and maternal depression.
To investigate differences in reported pain and pain treatment utilization (use of over-the-counter and prescription pain medications, seeing a pain specialist, and use of complementary and alternative medicine) among minorities and nonminorities in the general population.
Given the increased popularity of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), this study aimed to evaluate the effects of interactive media on self-directed learning in patients' knowledge of diabetes and related CAM/TCM strategies, the ability to control blood sugar levels, and self-care in people with diabetes.
To describe Nurses QuitNet registrants and relationships among the demographic and smoking characteristics, program dissemination strategies, and site utilization patterns.
Development of an educational program for women of special care nursery (SCN) infants in Kenya about the use and cleaning of breast pumps through culturally appropriate teaching tools as well as conduction of an evaluation of change in knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and practical ability in pump use following the educational intervention.
This manuscript argues that gang-identified youth constitute a vulnerable population.
Research is essential for guiding public health nursing practice with low-income and/or minority populations. Despite this, little is known about fundamental recruitment problems, the degree to which the informed consent process is comprehended, or how critical a role trust may play in conducting successful research with these groups. This article describes factors influencing recruitment of underrepresented groups, preferences for the informed consent process, and degree of trust participants extended to researchers.
This study compared the role of multislice computed tomography coronary angiography (MSCT-CA) and stress electrocardiography (ECG) in the diagnostic workup of patients with chronic chest pain.
The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the efficacy of right portal vein embolisation (PVE) in inducing contralateral liver hypertrophy before extended hepatectomy.
This study was undertaken to correlate apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and relative regional cerebral blood volume (rrCBV) to histological findings in a large series of patients with primary or secondary brain tumours to evaluate diffusion-weighted (DWI) and perfusion-weighted (PWI) imaging in the characterisation of cerebral tumors.
This study was performed to validate a high-resolution whole-body magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) protocol with parallel imaging and biphasic administration of a single bolus of contrast agent in the preliminary assessment of systemic atherosclerotic burden in patients referred for endovascular procedures.
In the framework of the 3-year project of the Italian Legatumori (2003-2006), we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of computed tomography (CT) colonography in detecting colorectal lesions in a screening population with positive faecal occult blood test (FOBT).
The study compares the diagnostic accuracy (correct identification of cancer) of a new computer-assisted diagnosis (CAD) system (Cyclopus) with two other commercial systems (R2 and CADx).
The treatment of pain in bone metastases is currently multidisciplinary. Among the various therapies, local radiotherapy is the gold standard for pain palliation from single metastasis, even though the maximum benefit is obtained between 12 and 20 weeks from initiation. In carefully selected patients, several ablation therapies achieve this objective in 4 weeks. The purpose of this study was to assess the technical success, effectiveness and possible complications of percutaneous ablation therapies in patients with symptomatic bone metastases.
The aim of this study was to analyse malpractice claims in mammography, estimate the specific risk of future claims and assess their impact on radiologists and society.
The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of 2-[fluorine-18] fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET) and computed tomography (CT) with PET/CT in the detection of liver metastases during tumour staging in patients suffering from colorectal carcinoma for the purposes of correct surgical planning and follow-up.
The purpose of this study was to compare exposure of patient and operator to ionising radiation during percutaneous vertebroplasty performed under combined computed tomography (CT) and fluoroscopic guidance or fluoroscopic guidance alone.
Total knee and total hip arthoplasty (THA) are 2 of the most common surgical procedures performed in the United States and represent the greatest single Medicare procedural expenditure. This study was designed to evaluate the economic impact of implementing a multimodal analgesic regimen (Total Joint Regional Anesthesia [TJRA] Clinical Pathway) on the estimated direct medical costs of patients undergoing lower extremity joint replacement surgery.
Patients undergoing liver resection may have marginal preoperative liver function, extensive intraoperative blood loss, and perioperative hepatic dysfunction. We evaluated the prevalence and types of coagulopathic conditions that occur in patients with epidural catheters undergoing hepatic resection.
In this study, we compare paravertebral block (PVB) of the T10 and L1 segments and multiple-segment PVB for anesthesia and analgesia in inguinal hernia surgeries.
The primary objective was to compare the serum pharmacokinetic profile of a single dose of extended-release epidural morphine (EREM) administered alone versus 15 to 60 mins after an analgesic epidural dose of bupivacaine.
Elevated extracellular calcium ion has been shown to shift the voltage dependence of Na+- and K+-ion channels rightward, making the nerve less excitable. We hypothesized that calcium chloride (CaCl2) when used as an adjuvant prolongs and intensifies the block by local anesthetics (LAs). We investigated the effects of LAs combined with calcium in rat sciatic nerve blockade and in cultured rat GH3 cells expressing Na+ channels. Furthermore, we tested for histologic changes due to CaCl2.
Reports of intravascular injection during cervical transforaminal injections, even after confirmation by contrast fluoroscopy, have led some to question the procedure's safety. As ultrasound allows for visualization of soft tissues, nerves, and vessels, thus potentially improving precision and safety, we evaluated its feasibility in cervical nerve root injections.
The use of ultrasound technology for vascular access and regional anesthesia is gaining widespread acceptance among anesthesia providers. As a result, many group practices and medical institutions are considering purchasing ultrasound equipment. Currently, comparative information regarding the ergonomic design, physical and adjustable features, data management, ease of use, cost, and image quality of various ultrasound machines is not available. The primary goal of this investigation was to develop an objective process of evaluating ultrasound equipment before purchase. The process of evaluation used in the current investigation may be used when comparing a variety of medical technologies.
In different peripheral nerve blocks, it has been speculated that needle guidance by ultrasound improves onset time and success rate compared with the more frequently used nerve stimulation-guided technique. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that ultrasound guidance improves onset time of coracoid infraclavicular brachial plexus block (IBPB) when compared with a nerve stimulation-guided technique.
The transarterial axillary block and the ultrasound-guided infraclavicular block are both effective methods of anesthetizing the upper extremity. This study compares these methods with respect to subjective postoperative dysesthesias, block adequacy, patient comfort, and patient satisfaction.
We describe 2 cases of Horner syndrome after epidural test dose injections in thoracic surgery patients. The Horner syndrome was transient and did not recur with full epidural activation and infusion.
The human endometrium manifests different and distinct morphologies and physiologies during the different phases of the menstrual cycle. We aimed to determine which candidate genes demonstrate differential expression patterns in the endometrium during different phases of the menstrual cycle.
Women of reproductive age are at risk of ruptured corpus luteum with hemoperitoneum. We identified the clinical and demographic features of patients recently treated in our institution and compared the findings with those from an earlier series, to detect any changes in disease identity that have occurred over the past 20 years.
To assess the efficacy of 24-hour urinary protein and calcium for the prediction of preeclampsia.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the percentage of pregnant women with negative Group B Streptococcus (GBS) screening results by culture at 35 weeks' gestation, who subsequently had positive GBS test results after 39 weeks' gestation.
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of the transverse muscle-cutting Maylard incision and the Pfannenstiel incision for hysterectomies, in terms of postoperative complications, pain, and quality of life.
Scientific evidence suggests that cyclic fluctuations in a variety of nutrients, especially calcium, may help to explain some features of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). We determined the efficacy of calcium supplementation in women suffering from PMS.
Estrogen is an important female hormone. The estrogen receptor (ER) plays a critical role in the development of breast cancer. Mutations within the ER can have clinically significant consequences.
To determine the acceptability and effectiveness of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist for the treatment of perimenopausal women with symptomatic uterine myomas.
Cervical cancer is an important female malignancy. The discovery of human papillomavirus (HPV) as an etiologic agent of cervical cancer has prompted increased interest in the biology and oncogenicity of this virus. The E7 protein is found predominantly in the nucleus and, to a lesser extent, in the cytoplasm in cervical cancer cell lines. HPV E7 has been shown to be functionally associated with the tumor suppressor interferon regulatory factor (IRF)-1 in cervical carcinogenesis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of calcium-vitamin D and metformin on the menstrual cycle and ovulation in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
To evaluate the effects of electroacupuncture (EA) on pregnancy rate and uterine artery blood flow impedance in patients undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF).
To present the clinical and molecular features of a fetus with confined trisomy 16 mosaicism with maternal uniparental disomy (UPD), using various prenatal diagnostic techniques.
Improvements in equipment and diagnostic skills mean that more abnormalities can now be detected antenatally, thus increasing the demand for pregnancy termination at later stages of gestation. Potassium chloride injected into the fetal circulation is the most frequently used procedure. In this study, we propose a new method of feticide using injection of normal saline into the fetal pericardial space to induce cardiac tamponade, resulting in late fetal reduction with minimal maternal risk.
We present a case of type I diastematomyelia diagnosed with ultrasonography at the 14th week of gestation.
Krukenberg tumors in pregnancy are extremely rare. Only three cases have been reported, two of which were diagnosed postpartum.
Malignant melanoma, which has a highly malignant potential, is a tumor of the skin and mucosal membranes. Malignant melanomas of the female genital tract, including the vulva and vagina, are rare. Their overall prognosis is poor and is worse than that for cutaneous melanomas.
Schwannomas rarely present as pelvic masses. Most of them have been previously examined in the pelvis, vagina, retroperitoneum, and mediastinum. We report a 44-year-old woman with a pelvic mass initially diagnosed as a uterine fibroid but subsequently proven to be a retroperitoneal cellular schwannoma.
To accurately assess the relationship between nerve sparing radical prostatectomy and urinary continence using an anonymous validated survey in men undergoing surgical treatment for prostate cancer.
The objective of this paper is to examine the contemporary incidence, diagnosis, and treatment of prostatic urothelial carcinoma and make recommendations on the current dilemmas of treating urothelial cancer of the prostate.
The aim of this study was to assess the degree and the course of psychological distress (anxiety and depression) in cancer patients and to detect sociodemographic determinants of the scores.
Sunitinib malate (Pfizer, Inc.) is a multitargeted kinase inhibitor that inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor (R)-1, 2 and 3, platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFR)-alpha and beta, Flt3, RET, and Kit. Angiogenesis and VEGF expression correlate with poor outcomes in human urothelial carcinoma. We designed a preclinical study to examine the efficacy of sunitinib alone and in combination with cisplatin against human urothelial carcinoma.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether mRNA expression of the apoptosis-associated genes, XAF1 and XIAP, in bladder cancer patients correlates with response to neoadjuvant treatment.
We aimed to define the risks associated with two single nucleotide polymorphisms, rs1447295 and rs13281615, in a hospital-based series of prostate cancer patients treated with brachytherapy.
To assess agreement between ultrasonography (transcutaneous and transrectal) and standing radiography in horses with fractures in the pelvic region and disorders of the coxofemoral joint.
To report a technique for incisional hernioplasty in horses using laparoscopic placement of a prosthetic mesh.
To report the incidence of (1) screw loosening and (2) severity of pelvic canal narrowing in cats after repair of ilial fractures by a lateral bone plate.
To (1) report a technique for repair of feline ilial fractures using a dorsally applied bone plate and (2) compare outcome with cats treated by a lateral plate.
To define a safe corridor in the dorsoventral plane within the feline sacral body for placement of screws inserted in lag fashion for repair of sacroiliac luxation.
To report a surgical technique for primary repair of separation of the annular and auricular cartilages of the ear and long-term outcome.
To determine the incidence of, and risk factors for, fibular fracture after tibial plateau leveling osteotomy (TPLO) in dogs.
To document a novel technique to image the thoracic duct and its tributaries by contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) lymphography.
To determine the incidence of postoperative ileus (POI) in a population of horses after small intestinal surgery and the effect of multiple variables on development of POI.
To compare the precision of radiography and computed tomography (CT) preoperatively in the standing position for identification of guidelines for screw insertion in the distal phalanx, and to identify whether standing CT might improve operative time compared with preoperative radiographic planning.
To report and compare the clinical diagnosis, surgical treatment, histopathologic changes, and outcomes of dogs with mineralized and nonmineralized supraspinatus tendinopathy (ST).
To describe the morphology of calcified tissues involved in distraction osteogenesis (DO) by means of backscattered scanning electron microscopy (BS-SEM).
To determine whether there has been improvement in canine hip joint phenotype classifications of dogs whelped from 1989 to 2003 by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA), by examining results of radiographic evaluations and identifying any trends in percentages of dogs classified as having desirable hip joint phenotypes.
To report laparoscopic splenectomy in goats.
To report a technique for tube cystostomy placement via a minimally invasive inguinal approach and outcome in 9 dogs and 6 cats with urinary tract obstruction or detrusor atony.
To describe an unusual long-term complication of circular end-to-end anastomosis (CEEA) stapling in a dog.
To report surgical treatment of traumatic lateral patellar luxation using trochlear block recession in an alpaca.
To characterize the performance of cemented total knee replacement (TKR) in dogs.
To describe a surgical technique for total knee replacement (TKR) in dogs with severe osteoarthritis (OA) and report 1-year outcome.
To report management of a chronic slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) in an alpaca using cementless total hip replacement (THR).
To assess a novel technique for arthroscopic evaluation of the canine stifle avoiding the need for fat pad debridement.
To describe an extra-articular joint distractor for meniscal examination and treatment during canine stifle arthroscopy.
To (1) describe a tangential radiographic projection of the equine temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and (2) optimize the radiographic angle and determine its use in standing sedated horses.
To develop a reliable technique for sinoscopic examination of the ventral conchal (VCS) and rostral maxillary sinuses (RMS) of horses
To evaluate the use of sinoscopy for detection and treatment of ventral conchal sinus (VCS) and/or rostral maxillary sinus (RMS) disease in horses.
To report use of a magnetic retriever for arthroscopic removal of a metallic foreign body from the equine talocrural joint.
To report short- and long-term survival and factors affecting outcome of foals after surgical correction of gastric outflow obstruction.
To report successful surgical treatment of double chambered right ventricle (DCRV) in a cat.
To investigate the effect of tibial plateau leveling osteotomy (TPLO) on the proximal tibial soft tissue envelope with and without use of protective gauze sponges, and to determine whether the action of an oscillating saw blade on the gauze sponges would result in retention of particulate cotton debris.
To report a serious complication in a dog with masticatory muscle myositis (MMM) that occurred during general anesthesia for diagnostic testing.
To report repair of a right proximal tibial Salter-Harris type II fracture in a foal with a hybrid external fixator (HEF).
To report and evaluate use of external skeletal fixation (ESF) for repair of isolated (fibula intact) diaphyseal tibia fractures in skeletally immature dogs.
To report a technique for arthrodesis of the distal interphalangeal joint (DIPJ) with two 6.5 mm Acutrak Plus (AP) compression screws from a solar approach and outcome in 7 cattle.
To report the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of amikacin sulfate for equine clinical isolates of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and characterize the initial kill and duration of the postantibiotic effect (PAE) for selected strains.
To evaluate rational and experiential intelligence in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) sufferers.
To evaluate retrospectively the correlation between enhancement patterns on dynamic computed tomography (CT) and angiogenesis and fibrosis in pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
To examine the demographic data on a large multi-ethnic population of patients with microscopic colitis (MC) in Southern California and to determine the association of MC with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and colorectal cancer.
To describe the clinical presentation and complications of portal hypertension (PH) secondary to myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM).
To determine free and conjugated serum bile acid (BA) levels in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) subgroups with defined clinical manifestations.
To investigate the presence of high-risk human papilloma virus (HPV) in esophageal squamous cell carcinomas (ESCCs) in a non-selected Mexican population.
To investigate whether percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube placement is safe in patients with ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunts.
To identify a cost-effective strategy of second primary colorectal cancer (CRC) screening for cancer survivors in Korea using a decision-analytic model.
To characterize the types of mutations present in the 23S rRNA genes of Malaysian isolates of clarithromycin-resistant Helicobacter pylori (H pylori).
To investigate microvascular injury quantitatively in the small bowel with respect to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and related mechanisms.
To assess the reliability and validity of the translated version of Nepean Dyspepsia Index (NDI) in Chinese patients with documented functional dyspepsia (FD).
To examine whether 2'-5'oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS) gene promoter can be specifically activated by hepatitis C virus (HCV)-core protein.
To compare postoperative quality of life (QOL) in patients with gastric cancer treated by esophagogastrostomy reconstruction after proximal gastrectomy.
To study the clinicopathologic features of fatal enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection.
To study the pathologic characteristics of chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis, especially the pattern of pulmonary interstitial fibrosis; and to compare the histologic features with those of idiopathic interstitial pneumonitis.
To characterize the risks and histopathological features of parvovirus B19 infection of infants in perinatal period.
To characterize clinicopathological features of allergic fungal sinusitis (AFS).
To study the clinicopathologic features and proliferative status of colorectal hyperplastic polyp (HP), sessile serrated adenoma (SSA) and traditional serrated adenoma (TSA).
To assess the sensitivity and positive predictive value (PPV) of intraoperative frozen section diagnosis of the borderline tumor of ovary (BTO).
To establish a green-fluorescent protein (GFP) labeled tumor metastasis model and to evaluate its biological characteristics.
Construction of a small interfering RNA (siRNA) eukaryotic expression vector specific to mouse myocardin gene and study on the role of myocardin-siRNA on differentiation of mouse bone mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) into smooth muscle-like cells induced by PDGF-BB in vitro.
Sponsored by the Subspecialty Group of Neonatology of Pediatric Society, Chinese Medical Association, more than ten large hospitals joined the 20-month multicenter investigation for Brain Injuries in Premature Infants in China. This paper presents the results of the incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) in premature infants in 9 hospitals of 7 big cities of China. All these hospitals were Third Class and Grade A hospitals.
Extrauterine growth restriction in preterm infants secondary to suboptimal nutrition is a major problem in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs). This study was designed to investigate the nutritional support and growth of premature infants who were discharged from 10 tertiary NICUs in different areas in China and evaluate the effects of high risk factors on their growth.
The retrospective study was carried out to investigate the nation-wide neonatal screening program in the past 22 years in China. This study aimed to summarize the experience, analyze the questions and concerns in the screening program.
To distinguish lingual thyroglossal duct cyst (LTDC) from laryngomalacia in newborn infants.
To study the extent of retinal vascular development and influencing factors at birth and the relation between retinal vascularization and retinopathy of prematurity (ROP).
To explore the clinical characteristics of cardiac syncope (CS) in children, and understand their significance in predicting the cardiac syncope.
Human growth hormone (hGH) is an essential therapeutic drug for the treatment of growth hormone (GH) deficiency (GHD). However, the process of dissolving hGH of the powder form is complicated and potentially hazardous. In the present study, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of preparation in the replacement therapy for children with GH deficiency.
This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of immunosuppressive therapy (IST) regimens as treatment of children with acquired severe aplastic anemia (SAA).
Leukemia is the most common hematopoietic malignancies in children. Chemotherapy is currently the primary modality of treatment for this fatal disease. Although chemotherapy is very effective in terms of cell killing, severe side effects such as severe infections, intracranial hemorrhage etc. are frequently encountered due to its poor selective damage between normal and malignant cells or tissues. Thus, a new therapy with highly selective killing of malignant cells which leaves the normal cells unaffected is desperately desired. The aim of this study was to investigate the targeting efficacy in vitro with a new clone of anti-human CD19 antibody immunotoxin 2E8-Genistein on B lineage leukemia cell line Nalm-6 cells and its mechanisms in order to provide the evidence of target therapy on B lineage leukemia and lymphoma.
To investigate the infection and the drug resistance status of mycoplasma and chlamydiae in genitourinary tracts of children with suspected nongonococcal urethritis (NGU) and provide information for clinical rational administration of antimicrobial agents.
Galactomannan (GM) is a major aspergilli cell-wall constituent released into circulation during the early stage of invasive disease, and can be detected. Many studies suggest that serum galactomannan assay has an excellent sensitivity and specificity for the early diagnosis of adult invasive aspergillosis (IA). However, there have been few studies on serum galactomannan assay in pediatric patients. Therefore, we evaluate the value of serum galactomannan assay in the diagnosis of pediatric invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in this study.
To investigate etiology and airway management in children with tracheobronchomalacia.
The role of air pollution on asthma can not be ignored, diesel exhaust particles (DEP) in the air is one of the most important pollutants. This study aimed to investigate the effect and mechanism of DEP inhaled on immediate reaction in the asthma rats.
Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPSII) is a lethal, X-linked recessive disorder caused by mutation of iduronate-2-sulfatase (IDS) gene. Up to now there is no really effective treatment for this disorder, therefore it is important to provide an accurate genetic diagnosis and prenatal diagnosis for the MPSII families. In this study, we identify the pathogenic mutation in a Chinese family with MPSII.
The incidences of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and metabolic syndrome (MS) are very high in obese children, and insulin resistance may be the key point linking them together. Debates still remain as to whether NAFLD could be a component of MS. Some researchers reported that NAFLD was a composition of MS, while the others stated that NAFLD was an independent predicting factor of MS. Here we analyzed the prevalence of NAFLD and MS in 308 obese children who came to our endocrinology department from June 2003 to September 2006, and we also evaluated the relationship between NAFLD and MS in this group of obese children.
Hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA) is an inborn error of metabolism in which the hydroxylation of phenylalanine (Phe) to tyrosine is disturbed. Accumulation of Phe leads to severe mental and psychomotor retardation. (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)HMRS) is a novel non-invasive method to quantitate the brain metabolites besides Phe concentration in HPA patients. And it could be acquired conveniently on clinical MRI routine scanners. This study aimed to investigate the correlation between blood Phe ([Phe](blood)) and [Phe](brain), the characteristics of blood-brain Phe metabolism and its impacts on mental retardation.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder that represents one of the most common genetic causes of mental retardation in girls. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between MECP2 genotype and phenotype and thereby not only to provide assistance for clinical care, but also facilitate clinical genetic counseling.
To analyze clinical manifestations, endoscopic and histological features for establishing a diagnosis of pediatric inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Leptin (LEP) is mainly produced by white adipose tissue and participates in the energy metabolism and regulation of growth. Cooperating with the other metabolic hormones, it plays an important role in the developments of fetus and neonates. This study was designed to test the serum levels of LEP, neuropeptide Y (NPY), insulin (INS) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and measure the body mass index (BMI) and head circumference (HC) at different days of life of premature infants with or without serious diseases and to find the changes of serum levels of LEP as well as NPY, INS and IGF-1, the relationship between those hormones and the changes of body weight and the influences of diseases on the levels of those hormones in premature infants.
Intra-ventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is one of the most serious complications of preterm infants. Significant numbers of the surviving infants with severe IVH go on to develop post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH). The management of PHH remains a very challenging problem for both neonatologists and pediatric neurosurgeons. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the use of Ommaya reservoirs and serial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage in the management of a series of neonates with PHH.
To construct the growth standardized data and curves based on weight, length/height, head circumference for Chinese children under 7 years of age.
To recognize and improve the outcome of childhood Ewing's sarcoma family tumors, and to identify the efficacy and safety of the chemotherapy using RS-2002 Protocol.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is a primary immunodeficiency diseases. The patients with classical WAS have poor prognosis. The hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the most effective method to cure WAS at present. In this report, a patient with WAS was cured with HLA identical sibling bone marrow transplantation (BMT).
Methylmalonic acidemia complicated with homocysteinemia, cblC type, is the most common inborn error of cobalamin metabolism. The gene MMACHC (OMIM 277400) is located on chromosome 1p34.1 with four coding exons and a 5th non-coding exon. It encodes for a protein with 282 amino acid residues. So far, more than 40 mutations have been detected, in which 271dupA (R91KfsX14) is the hot spot of MMACHC gene. However, there have not been relevant reports in China. The present study aimed to identify the mutation types of MMACHC gene and analyze the genotype-phenotype correlations in Chinese patients.
As an endogenous antioxidant, taurine could retard the development of diabetic cardiovascular complications. Whereas, whether TAU has a protective effect on diabetic vascular endothelium in young patients is still unclear. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of taurine on early vascular endothelial dysfunction and its possible mechanism by detecting the changes of oxLDL/LOX-1 system in young STZ-induced diabetic rats. Doing so, the authors expect to find an effective approach in clinical practice to the prevention and treatment of diabetic vascular complication.
The aims of this study were to evaluate whether the presence of -2518A/G polymorphism in the distal regulatory region of the monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) was associated with tuberculosis (TB) in Chongqing Han population and to find whether it has a significant impact on the pediatric patient.
To date, studies on the roles of angiopoietin-2 (ang-2) during the retinal vascular development focused on either double transgenic mice with inducible expression of ang-2 or ang-2 gene knockout mice or ang-2 gene deficient mice, and others focused on cell culture. Few studies have been done in animals with normal genetic expression or oxygen-induced animal model. In this study, the hyperoxia-induced model of retinopathy was established to investigate the expression of ang-2 in the retinae of model rats with retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) and explore the expression relationship between ang-2 in the retinae and retinal vascular development.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the parenteral administration of various quantities of amino acid in preterm infants.
To analyze the factors affecting the occurrence and severity of crush syndrome (CS) after crush injury (CI) in pediatric trauma victims in the Wenchuan earthquake.
To investigate the distribution and the drug resistance pattern of pathogenic bacteria isolated from pediatric cases suffering from wounds infection following the Wenchuan earthquake.
To discuss the treatment strategy of severe hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD) cases, prevent the severe cases from progressing to fatal condition and enhance the survival rate of critically ill patients.
To understand the features of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings and the results of clinical follow-up study in 8 infants and children with hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD) complicated with acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) who were admitted to Beijing Ditan Hospital during the outbreak of HFMD in 2008.
To explore the value of imaging in the preoperative evaluation of pygopagus conjoined twins (PCT), and analyze the significance of imaging for separation surgery plan and prognosis.
To probe into the occurrence rates of the effective antigen combinations which were used to detect the minimal residual disease (MRD) by flow cytometry in childhood B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), as well as the relationship between clinical-biologic factors and different combinations.
To explore the growth patterns and simple mathematic models of height and weight of Chinese children.
To understand the projects completion and research progresses in pediatrics which were funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), and evaluate the accomplishment objectively and justly.
To investigate nerve fibers distribution in endometrium of adenomyosis and their relationship with dysmenorrhea.
To investigate the relationship between degree of endometrioma adhesions and clinical feature, surgical treatment and postoperative recurrence.
To study the incidence of pelvic adhesions in endometriosis (EM) and the relationship between pelvic adhesions and pain symptoms.
To identify the early warning signs of severe preeclampsia (SPE).
To investigate clinical value of Tei index used for monitoring right ventricular (RV) function in pregnant women complicating cardiac disease accompanying pulmonary hypertension (PH) and the influence on left ventricular (LV) function due to overload pressure of RV.
To investigate the role of RhoA and Rho kinase system in the onset of labor.
The study was to explore the safety, firmness and convenience of the fascia around the ischial spine as a new fixation site for the vaginal fornix.
To investigate the expression of integrin beta3 and osteopontin (OPN) in eutopic and ectopic endometrium of adenomyosis.
To investigate feasibility of laparoscopic anatomical nerve sparing radical hysterectomy (LANSRH) used for locally advanced cervical cancer treatment and evaluate early recovery of bladder function postoperatively.
To evaluate the feasibility of sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) in patients with vulvar cancer.
To study the expression and clinical significance of Notch intracellular domain (NICD) in cervical cancer and the effects of N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenyl)acetyl-L-alanyl]-S-phenyl glycine t-butyl ester (DAPT), a gamma-secretase inhibitor on the proliferation and apoptosis of cervical cancer cell lines.
To investigate the value of serum proteomic profiling in cervical cancer detected pre-surgery and post-surgery.
To explore the clinical value and management of complications of the transplantation of Titanium skirt compounded keratoprosthesis for severe corneal blindness eyes.
To develop a multiplex, microsphere-based DNA suspension array for the identification of important pathogenic fungi of cornea and to study the feasibility of its application in the clinical diagnosis of fungal keratitis.
To explore the lymphangiogenesis process in alkali burned human cornea and to discuss factors modulating this process.
To evaluate and compare the visual performance between the patients with the diffractive multifocal and monofocal intraocular lens (IOL).
To evaluate the results of eyelid defect reconstruction using periosteal stripe of the lateral orbital rim.
A population-based study was conducted to compare the prevalence of congenital color vision deficiencies (CVD) in high-school students of Uygur and Han nationalities in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.
To analysis tear proteins by using shotgun strategy, and to study pathogenesis mechanism of conjunctivochalasis by comparing tear proteins between the conjunctivochalasis and normal body.
To analyze the types, distribution characteristics and in vitro susceptibility of antibiotic agents of ocular non-viral microbial isolates in children.
To explore the inhibiting effect of rapamycin (RAPA) on corneal neovascularization (CNV) of rats and the functional mechanism.
To investigate the effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF) on the proliferation of cultured rabbit corneal epithelial (RCE) cells and the expression of cell cycle-regulatory proteins in these cells.
To study the relationship between corneal neovascularization and various biological factors in corneal stroma of rats.
To evaluate the effect of pressures on the changes of purified cultivation of SD suckling rats' retinal ganglion cells (RGC) by a hyperbaric cell culture model and on the expression of neurofilament protein-H (NF-H) in vitro.
To investigate the role of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) after trabeculectomy associated with wound healing and to identify the role of CTGF in this process.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) is a elementary data in diagnosis and therapy of glaucoma. Many studies have confirmed that most tonometry, including Goldmann applanation tonometry, are influenced by central corneal thickness (CCT) and CCT varies greatly among the general population. As a result, the measurement of CCT has a great implication in management of glaucoma. Further, CCT is confirmed a risk factor for progression from ocular hypertension to primary open angle glaucoma. The idea of that CCT may bear an inverse relation with the risk for developing glaucoma damage is in debating. Many specialists bring forward that CCT measurement should be one of the regular examinations in treatment of glaucoma patients.
Wnt5a expression stimulates in vitro migration and invasion of cultured gastric cancer cells by an unknown mechanism and is also correlated with aggressiveness of gastric tumors. The aim of this study was to show that Wnt5a is involved in metastasis of gastric cancer cells in vivo and to explore the molecular mechanism by which Wnt5a regulates migration and invasion.
A link between negative emotional state and abnormal visceral sensation has been frequently reported. However, the influence of negative emotion on brain processing of painful visceral sensations has not been investigated. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and negative emotional stimuli to investigate the effects of negative emotion on brain processing of esophageal sensation.
To review the experience with a relatively novel treatment, local thrombolysis, in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-related thromboembolism (TE).
Thyroid disorders represent a common side effect of antiviral therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). However, there is strong evidence for a higher prevalence of thyroidal antibodies (TA) and nonorgan-specific autoantibodies (NOSA) even before interferon (IFN) administration. Here, we report for the first time on the distribution and occurrence of TA and NOSA before, during, and after treatment with daily highdosed IFN alfacon-1 [consensus IFN (CIFN)].
The multikinase inhibitor sorafenib provides survival benefit for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and liver cirrhosis (LCI) Child-Pugh A. We report our experiences with sorafenib in advanced HCC, particularly in patients with LCI Child-Pugh B/C, where only limited data are available in regard to safety and efficacy of sorafenib.
To evaluate th e impact of a training intervention To evaluate the impact of a training intervention for health care professionals on inpatients' smoking and alcohol consumption and to compare the hospital intervention for the two substances.
This study analyses the neuropsychological profile of a sample of cocaine addicts and compares it with a control group from the same social environment. Also, it explores the predictive power of some neuropsychological tests on treatment outcome six months after the exploration.
Benzodiazepines (BZ) are widely prescribed drugs, but their use is controversial in patients who present a disorder caused by substance use/abuse, due to the risk of tolerance and abuse/dependence. The purpose of this work is to determine the levels of BZ use in patients treated with methadone and to compare them with findings from the current literature.
Several studies have shown evidence of executive function impairment associated with substance abuse. This suggests the potential usefulness of a baseline assessment measure to screen for dysexecutive impairments in individuals beginning treatment. The Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX) is a test widely used to estimate executive dysfunction. The main objective of this work is to study the psychometric properties of the Spanish version of the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX-Sp). A complementary goal is to study its potential utility for initial screening in addicted individuals seeking treatment.
To study the localization and size of residual anastomoses in twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome treated with fetoscopic laser surgery and correlate the findings with outcome.
The purpose of this study was to determine the long-term neurodevelopmental outcome in fetuses with severe tachy- or bradyarrhythmia.
To assess the use of human papillomavirus genotyping in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia posttreatment follow-up.
Our aim was to assess the association between loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) and the subsequent risk for spontaneous preterm delivery, with the use of population-based data from various nationwide registries.
The purpose of this article was to describe rectal colonization by group B Streptococcus (GBS) and its role in the prediction of vaginal colonization.
The purpose of this study was to examine associations of weight gain from prepregnancy to glycemic screening with glucose tolerance status.
To determine the effects of 2 maternal injections with dexamethasone on the calculated oxygen and glucose deliveries to fetal cerebral and peripheral circulations during acute hypoxemia in sheep.
We sought to compare the outcomes of cervicoisthmic (CI) cerclage using traditional transabdominal (TA) approach vs the lesser used transvaginal (TV) approach.
To evaluate the usefulness of uterine artery Doppler in the prediction of outcome in patients with late-onset preeclampsia.
The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence, causative pathogens, and risk factors for early onset sepsis (EOS) among very-low-birthweight (VLBW) infants.
We sought to determine the rate of de novo stress incontinence, pelvic muscle symptoms, mesh exposure, visceral injury rate, and recurrent prolapse after transvaginal mesh repair.
An enhanced visualization technique using polarized light (Syris v600 enhanced visualization system; Syris Scientific LLC, Gray, ME) detects surface and subsurface ( approximately 1 mm depth) inflammation. We sought to compare the Syris v600 system with unaided visual inspection and colposcopy of the female genitalia.
This study investigated the risks for cerebral palsy in survivors of multiple pregnancies with cofetal loss (&lt; 20 weeks' gestation) or cofetal death (&gt;or= 20 weeks' gestation).
The purpose of this study was to critically appraise the diagnostic accuracy of transvaginal sonography for diagnosing adenomyosis.
To examine mechanisms that mediate increased intramembranous solute and water absorption.
To evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of rapid human immunodeficiency virus testing in obstetric outpatient settings.
This retrospective study evaluated the toxicity of extended-field radiation therapy (EFRT), whole pelvis radiotherapy, and concurrent chemotherapy in patients treated with IB2-IIIB cervical carcinoma.
Pelvic floor trauma as a result of vaginal childbirth can cause significant pelvic floor morbidity. In this observational study, we intended to define whether such trauma is associated with abnormal hiatal biometry and/or abnormal biomechanical properties of the levator muscle.
The purpose of this study was to identify unique characteristics for seeking emergency contraception (EC) among sexually active unmarried women who attended a university-based women's health clinic (WHC).
The purpose of this study was to develop and characterize a human antibody in a single-chain antibody fragment format (scFv) that is directed specifically against claudin-3 (CLDN3).
The purpose of this study was to analyze the in vitro activation of the contact complex with the use of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) in culture and monoclonal anticardiolipin antibodies (MaCL).
The purpose of this study was to assess the effectiveness of the use of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) physical status and viral load in combination to predict clinical outcome during cervical development.
We sought to ascertain the risk of reduced fetal brain growth in cases of isolated congenital heart defect (CHD) based on microcephaly at birth.
In the United States, the rate of preterm delivery (PTD) is higher in African Americans (17.8%) than non-Hispanic whites (11.5%). Such disparity cannot be fully explained by differences in socioenvironmental factors.
The purpose of this study was to determine changes in screening and performance of invasive diagnostic procedures for Down syndrome between 2001 and 2007.
This study was undertaken to determine fetal heart rate (FHR) tracing patterns associated with congenital hypothyroidism.
The contribution of male fetal sex to twin preterm birth (PTB) rates was evaluated in the United States.
We sought to identify modifiable risk factors for excessive gestational weight gain (GWG).
We evaluated the intrapartum fetal heart rate (FHR) patterns in fetuses with congenital heart disease (CHD).
We evaluated rate of levator ani muscle (LAM) avulsion among primiparae using 3-dimensional transperineal ultrasound to identify possible risk factors for such trauma.
The objective of the study was to assess the factors that affect fetal growth and birthweight, and to derive coefficients for a customized growth chart applicable in an American population.
The objective of the study was to investigate the association between pregnancy complications and small for gestational age (SGA) birthweight, comparing SGA based on the customized growth potential with SGA based on the birthweight standard of the same population.
The purpose of this study was too assess whether prepregnancy body mass index (BMI) modifies the relationship between pregnancy weight gain and large for gestational age (LGA; &gt; 90% of birthweight for gestational age) or macrosomia (&gt;or= 4500 g).
The purpose of this study was to assess associations between pregnancy weight gain (PWG) and small for gestational age (SGA) defined by birthweight &lt; 10th percentile and 2 more restrictive definitions and to assess the proportion of SGA attributed to low PWG.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the development and implications of intraabdominal adhesions after repeat cesarean section delivery (CS).
The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of traditional abdominal cerclage (AC) with laparoscopic cerclage (LC).
We sought to develop a neural network (NN) to predict the risk for cesarean delivery (CD) in term nulliparas.
The purpose of this study was to subjectively evaluate the adequacy of the porcine model for training gynecologic oncology fellows.
To assess the impact of systemic inflammation on diaphragm and limb muscle strength and bulk in adult patients with CF.
To understand the gene expression patterns of acute exacerbations of IPF.
To determine the extent of lung disease in a geographically defined population of infants with CF diagnosed after detection by NBS.
To determine if a history of low birth weight is associated with hospitalization for respiratory illness in adulthood.
To determine whether these compensatory responses may have maladaptive effects on lung function.
To evaluate whether EMT occurs in primary airway epithelial cells (AECs), the mechanisms involved, and if this process is altered in asthmatic AECs.
This study examined several possible mechanisms to understand this paradox.
To determine whether COPD increases the risk of cognitive decline among older adults surveyed in a large, population-based longitudinal cohort.
We tested this hypothesis in models of lung infection, using mice with different genetic backgrounds.
To evaluate the independent and combined effects of alcohol drinking, cigarette smoking and betel quid chewing on the risk of calcium urolithiasis.
To compare the performance of eight regression models for analyzing risk of falling, focusing on the effect of physical inactivity in older veterans.
The objective of this study was to compare the reasons why mothers do or do not have their adolescent daughters vaccinated against HPV.
Previous studies did not discriminate wild-type from hemizygous genotypes of GSTM1 and GSTT1. In this study, we investigated wild-type, hemizygous deletion, and homozygous deletion genotypes of GSTM1 and GSTT1 and lung cancer risk.
Epidemiologic data suggest an association between cadmium exposure and cardiovascular disease though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study explored the hypothesis that cadmium exposure is associated with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and fibrinogen, two risk factors for developing cardiovascular disease.
The prevalence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is high among adult incarcerated populations, but HCV-related mortality data are lacking. The study purpose was to assess HCV-related mortality over time and across racial/ethnic categories from 1994 through 2003 among male prisoners in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ).
Twenty-four-hour diet recall interviews (24HRs) are used to assess diet and to validate other diet assessment instruments. Therefore it is important to know how many 24HRs are required to describe an individual's intake.
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is an osteoarthropathy affecting 2.5 million of 30 million residents of China's KBD-endemic regions. This study assesses the etiologic role of river water as a main source of drinking water, its impact on and interaction with KBD familial aggregation.
To improve the effectiveness of behavioral interventions for Hispanic young adults, we studied their perceived risks for HIV infection, lifetime and more recent sexual experiences, use of condoms, and HIV-antibody testing histories.
In order to compare health-related quality of life (HRQOL) research findings across race/ethnicity subpopulations, it is important to demonstrate factorial invariance, i.e., that the items have equivalent meaning across the race/ethnicity groups studied. This study examined the factorial invariance of child self-reported HRQOL across race/ethnicity groups for ages 5-18 years utilizing the 23-item PedsQL 4.0 Generic Core Scales.
Before AIDS, endemic (African) Kaposi sarcoma (KS) was noted to occur in volcanic areas and was postulated to result from dirt chronically embedded in the skin of the lower extremities. The primary cause of all KS types is KS-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) infection, but cofactors contribute to the neoplasia. We investigated whether residential exposure to volcanic or related soils was associated with the risk of classic Kaposi sarcoma (cKS) in Sicily.
To evaluate the biodurability of balangeroite, present as contaminant of chrysotile asbestos in the Balangero mine, in order to have indication whether it might have been a confounding factor in the association of the mesothelioma cases reported among mine workers and employees.
The main objective of the study was to gather information about the current controls and levels of exposure to 4,4'-methylene-bis (2-chloroaniline) (MbOCA) in a representative cross section of workplaces that use it to manufacture polyurethane elastomers. The study also aimed to investigate whether controls and guidance could be improved and to investigate exposure to isocyanates in these workplaces using biological monitoring.
Occupational exposure assessment is a major task in industrial hygiene studies. Although statistical analyses for magnitudes and variations of exposures to various types of working populations based on existing data sets are extensive, relatively few discussions on study designs appear in the literature, especially for sample size determination and number of repeated measurements.
The aim of this study was to analyze the clinical and polysomnographic features of rapid eye movement (REM)-specific sleep disordered-breathing (SDB).
The measurement of breathing pattern in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) by electrical impedance tomography (EIT) requires the use of a mathematical calibration model incorporating not only anthropometric characteristics (previously evaluated in healthy individuals) but probably functional alterations associated with COPD as well. The aim of this study was to analyze the association between EIT measurements and spirometry parameters, static lung volumes, and carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO) in a group of male patients to develop a calibration equation for converting EIT signals into volume signals.
To investigate alterations in trunk muscle timing patterns in subgroups of patients with mechanical low back pain (MLBP). Our hypothesis was that subjects with MLBP would demonstrate delayed muscle onset and have fewer muscles functioning in a feedforward manner than the control group. We further hypothesized that we would find differences between subgroups of our patients with MLBP, grouped according to diagnosis (segmental instability and noninstability).
To examine the impact of surface type, wheelchair weight, and rear axle position on older adult propulsion biomechanics.
To determine the association of various symptoms and psychiatric diagnoses with a remote history of mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) and a current diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
To evaluate the effects on muscle strength of salbutamol administered for 6 months using a periodic regimen in patients presenting with facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD).
To determine whether repetitive and cumulative exposure to low-frequency pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMF) targeting painful feet can reduce neuropathic pain (NP), influence sleep in symptomatic diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), and influence nerve regeneration.
To examine the extent to which diabetes codes that increase reimbursement (tier comorbidities) under the prospective payment system are related to length of stay and functional outcomes in stroke rehabilitation.
To provide an empirical estimate of the prevalence of malingered disability in patients with chronic pain who have financial incentive to appear disabled.
To examine prevalence of low bone mineral density (BMD) among adults with disability, using World Health Organization diagnostic categories.
To understand the mechanical and sensorimotor adaptations that may occur with ankle osteoarthritis (OA).
To examine the natural recovery of mechanical laxity after an ankle sprain over an 8-week period.
To evaluate the analgesic prescribing patterns for musculoskeletal complaints in a nationally representative sample of ambulatory care visits over a dynamic period of pharmaceutical treatments.
To examine the effect of wrist orthoses on the electromyography activities of the extensor carpi ulnaris, flexor digitorum superficialis, and fibers of the upper trapezius muscles during computer work.
To examine the effects of acute fatigue of the hip abductors on the control of balance in young and older women.
To determine the reliability of linear and nonlinear tools, including intrasession and intersession reliability, when used to analyze the center of pressure (COP) time series during the development of infant sitting postural control.
To determine if hippotherapy (therapy using a horse) improves head/trunk stability and upper extremity (UE) reaching/targeting in children with spastic diplegia cerebral palsy (SDCP).
To explore team structures, team relationships, and organizational culture constituting interprofessional collaboration (IPC) in a particular rehabilitation setting; to develop a description of IPC practice that may be translated, adapted, and operationalized in other clinical environments.
To determine the predictors of hospital length of stay (LOS) of stroke patients at the point of admission.
To provide a multivariate examination of the Berg Balance Scale (BBS) in patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) as a first step in developing a balance tool for the SCI population.
To examine paired reflex depression changes post 20-minute bout each of 2 training environments: stationary bicycle ergometer training (bicycle training) and treadmill with body weight support and manual assistance (locomotor training).
To investigate the reliability of the Dutch version of the Spinal Cord Injury-Interventions Classification System.
To examine motor unit characteristics (size and firing rate) associated with aging.
To evaluate right bundle branch block (RBBB) on electrocardiograms (ECGs) as a screening tool for the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism (PE) in a chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) population and to determine the prevalence of PE.
To evaluate exposure and dosimetry to family members and environment due to outpatient radioiodine therapy of differentiated thyroid carcinoma.
To analyze the aberrant expression of the GIPR and LHCGR in different forms of adrenocortical hyperplasia: ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (AIMAH), primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) and diffuse adrenal hyperplasia secondary to Cushing's disease (DAHCD).
To evaluate the impact of abdominal fat and insulin resistance on arterial hypertension of non-obese women.
To evaluate periodontal condition of diabetic children and its related factors.
To assess the reliability of classification of nutritional status (NS) obtained through the body mass index (BMI) and three different methods of body composition (BC) in individuals type 1 diabetics (T1D) and non-diabetic subjects.
To compare the frequency of HLA alleles and polymorphism in CTLA-4 and insulin genes in Brazilians with T1ADM and individuals without the disease, as well as to identify genetic markers that are able to discriminate between diabetic and non-diabetic individuals.
To analyze computed tomographic colonography performance for the screening of colorectal polyps in acromegalic patients.
To evaluate the prevalence of H. pylori infection in patients with colonic adenomas and also in patients whose colonoscopy exams were normal.
Study the terminal ileum of patients who underwent colonoscopy considering: endoscopic and histological correlation; agreement between results of the initial histological evaluation and slides review, and the chance of subjects with normal ileoscopy with abdominal pain and/or chronic diarrhea to show histological alterations.
This study aimed at quantifying digital morphometric characteristics of colonoscopic images obtained with magnification and chromoscopy of three different types of colonic lesions: hyperplastic, adenomas and carcinomas, and the normal mucosa surrounding the lesions.
To compare the diagnostic accuracy of the magnification with either the electronic chromoendoscopy or indigo carmine dye in the differential diagnosis of neoplastic and non-neoplastic colorectal lesions.
To investigate the Ki67 and p53 immunostaining in GISTs.
To present the authors experience with inducing progressive pneumoperitoneum preoperative to surgical treatment of voluminous hernias of the abdominal wall.
To compare the expression of cytokeratin 7 and 20 in goblet cells and columnar blue cells in patients with endoscopic evidence of Barrett's esophagus.
To evaluate the sustained virological response to the treatment with IFN+RBV versus PEG+RBV in coinfected patients HCV/HIV genotype 1, in a public health program.
To identify the frequency of a disrupted wrap in the postoperative period and to evaluate esophageal complications related with gastroesophageal reflux recurrence in children and adolescents.
To study the bowel habit of young children in the community to determine, first, whether early-onset constipation is confirmed in this setting and, second, the agreement between recalled and recorded bowel habit.
The aim of this paper is to advance and enrich innovative thinking about mental health issues from an Indigenous perspective, through consideration of the gap between Indigenous mental health research and Indigenous mental health practice.
Indigenous people have often been depicted as 'living between two worlds'. They have been described as living neither in their 'Indigenous' world nor in the 'Western' world but in some middle, liminal, or in-between 'world'. People in such situations are often described as 'caught' or 'suspended' and with obvious negative social, emotional and health consequences. What is this cultural space that is often described as 'being between two worlds'? Can Indigenous people develop their identity within the demands and values of contemporary Australian society?
This paper explores reasons for using decolonization as a method for improving Indigenous health status. Decolonization is a method required to shift the current paradigm of Western dominance and colonial amnesia that constructs and maintains Indigenous poor health status.
The concept of collective trauma has predominantly been applied in the context of natural and human disasters. This paper seeks to explore whether collective trauma offers a respectful way in which to explore and respond to mental health and wellbeing issues for Aboriginal families and communities.
Psychoanalysis is used to explore the effects of the annihilation of culture and how this leads to a loss of identification with a collective subjectivity and triggers catastrophic symptoms including loss of collective hope, the rise of addictive and self-destructive behaviours, and the intergenerational transmission of trauma among Indigenous Australian communities.
In 1983 an Under 17 Australian Rules Football team visited Melbourne. They came from Townsville in North Queensland and the majority were Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander. For several months prior to the trip they worked to raise the money and resources they needed for the trip. This paper describes the preliminary results of a research project that looked at the health of this group 25 years later. What can we learn from their experience in 1983? What can they tell us about the health of the next generation of young Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men?
Despite recognition of the extremely high rates of mental illness among custodial populations and the fact that Indigenous people represent around one-quarter of Australia's custodial population, little is known about the mental health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in custody. Mental health is an important component of social and emotional wellbeing for Indigenous people and this paper considers current evidence regarding the mental health status of Indigenous Australians in custody.
The aim of this paper was to investigate the importance and challenges involved in conducting serial cognitive assessments among healthy Indigenous adolescents.
The aim of this paper is to describe the implementation of the Community Safety Research Project (CSRP) focusing on violence prevention among Aboriginal communities in western NSW in order to examine how practice converges with contemporary ethical guidelines.
This paper provides an example of a mental health research partnership underpinned by empowerment principles that seeks to foster strength among community organizations to support better outcomes for consumers, families and communities. It aims to raise awareness among researchers and service providers that empowerment approaches to assist communities to address mental health problems are not too difficult to be practical but require long-term commitment and appropriate support.
This case study describes the efforts of an Aboriginal men's group to facilitate and support the empowerment of young people in their community. It is part of a broader participatory action research (PAR) study of men's groups.
This paper presents two arguments relevant to both past and present efforts to improve Indigenous health. It advocates for ways of thinking about and doing health promotion that begin with empowerment to help people gain a greater level of control over their lives and circumstances.
This paper reflects on the collaborative research relationship between university and community researchers. It identifies emergent themes expressed in the words of researchers and recommends strategies to assist with other research collaborations.
The aim of this paper is to discuss the New South Wales (NSW) Aboriginal Mental Health and Well Being Policy and its key workforce initiative, the NSW Aboriginal Mental Health Workforce Training Program.
The aim of this paper is to present a model of working with a community controlled health organization to develop an evidence base that will be used to inform program development and delivery.
The aim of this paper is to overview the history, structure and activities of the Queensland Mental Health Review Tribunal in relation to Indigenous patients.
A week-long intensive outreach project to the Indigenous community of Napranum was undertaken by a Community Forensic Mental Health Service with the aim of developing the community's capacity for primary and secondary prevention of forensic mental health problems.
This paper introduces a project established between the Emotional, Social Wellbeing Centre and the Goldfields Ngunytju Tjitji Pirni (Caring for Women and Children) and the Western Australia Police in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia.
The aim of this paper is to report the experiences of the author during her Advanced Training Fellowship year in Indigenous mental health and consultation-liaison psychiatry through the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatry. The description will include a discussion of how such a Fellowship may complement the key learning objectives of advanced training in psychiatry.
The aim of this paper is to document the processes towards ensuring that all psychiatrists in training in Victoria have appropriate Indigenous mental health experience and training.
The aim of this study was to identify and operationalize aspects of a future planning process for sustainable delivery of Kaupapa Māori (Specialist Māori) mental health from a team called He Kakano, within Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services in South Auckland, New Zealand.
Several native American communities face serious social problems brought about by the loss of culture. Many First-Nation communities organize traditional activities in a wilderness setting to promote culture and prevent social problems, among them suicide. The activities evaluated in this study were organized by the Atikamek community of Manawan (Quebec, Canada) for adolescents aged between 14 and 17 years. The main goals of these activities were to increase self-esteem, re-establish cultural continuity, encourage pro-social behaviours among the participants and ultimately empower and mobilize the community.
The aim of this study was to work collaboratively with a rural Community Mental Health Team (CMHT) to examine the issue of workplace stress and address issues specified by the group.
The aim of this study was to increase knowledge and skills of Advisory and Extension Agents (AEAs) in recognizing the symptoms of mental disorders, providing initial help, and offering the referral pathway for appropriate professional help.
The aim of this paper is to indicate how online cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) training for rural and remote health professionals can enhance access to evidence-based treatments in rural communities and address psychotherapy training shortfalls for rural practitioners treating Australians with high prevalence psychological disorders.
The aim of this paper is to describe the newly established mental health services at Atoifi Adventist Hospital, Solomon Islands, the sociocultural context in which it operates, and illustrate how the service is engaging with the Kwaio community to understand and incorporate local sociocultural beliefs into prevention, treatment and recovery journeys.
This paper provides an introduction to applied theatre and performance as a body of practice that may enhance the wellbeing of Indigenous communities. Applied theatre forms are conceptualized along a continuum from 'performance-oriented' to 'participant-oriented'. Participant reflections are reported from a pilot workshop in Papua New Guinea, as a contribution to the evolution of theory and practice of applied theatre for health promotion in Indigenous communities.
Changing definitions of culture are modifying approaches to intercultural education and training. This paper outlines the principal features of these emerging models for innovation and capacity building in communities.
This paper outlines evidence of efficacious outcomes from mixing people living with diverse mental health challenges and/or intellectual disability. The intention was to show how mixing up people who are differently challenged can be efficacious in (re)habilitation terms. Two separate experiences of sharing personal narratives were involved, along with creative expressions in music, art and filming, combined with group gatherings providing discerning feedback for each other on members' day-to-day progress. After 12 months of 'open urban tribe' gatherings in Sydney, where participants formed a community of belonging, the model was adapted for use in Alice Springs. The original group developed a cycle of interactive ritual rhythms, and these became a special feature of their self-help, peer support approach. The Sydney project modelled community-based rehabilitation, and that process then informed the processes initiated in a rural, remote location.
This paper describes the background to, implementation of and evaluation challenges associated with an innovative, arts-based, wellbeing and mental health recovery project in a remote Indigenous setting.
This paper explores an approach to an evaluation challenge: to demonstrate the impact of an initiative drawing on innovative use of information/multimedia technology and performance to address perceived social needs within a disadvantaged, remote Indigenous Australian community.
The aim of this paper is to illustrate through poetry that self-directed recovery from mental illness is possible, and that through vigilance and a supportive network of family and mental health workers, life beyond recovery can be full and rewarding for any consumer.
To assess whether immunosuppressive drugs increase mortality.
To investigate the kinetics and magnitude of human bone strontium uptake and retention during and after long-time treatment with strontium ranelate (SrR).
Bodyweight is a significant predictor of bone mass. Hormonal factors are thought to play a role in the mechanisms controlling the association of body weight and fat mass with bone mass. Very recently, the orexigenic hormone ghrelin has also been implicated in bone metabolism. In this study we examined the associations of circulating acylated and des-acyl ghrelin concentrations with measures of bone in a group of obese children and adolescents as well as in a group of healthy control children. We also determined whether the associations were independent of body composition, chronological age, gender, Tanner stage, and leptin, glucose, insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 levels.
Antiepileptic drugs have been reported to reduce bone mineral density (BMD) in several countries with varying prevalence but in studies with small sample size and inadequate assessment of confounders, and rarely including young adults. We sought to determine the prevalence, vitamin D status and risk factors for low BMD in young adult epileptic patients in a tropical setting.
To investigate the microstructural differences and responsible mechanisms in early bone formation in anterior lumbar interbody fusion (ALIF) in the spine using rhBMP-2 (INFUSE), equine bone protein extract (COLLOSS E) or autograft.
To study intracortical inhibition and facilitation with paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation in children, adolescents and adults.
To identify the very early signs of childhood cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy (CALD) in asymptomatic boys.
Study about the efficacy of salvage radiotherapy (RT), in terms of biochemical disease free survival (bDFS), according to ASTRO and Phoenix (nadir+2) definitions, for persistent or rising PSA after radical prostatectomy.
Prospective monocentric study of the skin and heart tolerance of a concurrent administration of trastuzumab (T) and radiotherapy (RT) for breast cancer (BC).
Our study aims to evaluate the impact of the implementation of respiratory gating (RG) on the production cost of radiotherapy, as compared to conformational radiotherapy without RG (comparator) in patients with lung or breast cancers. Issues surrounding reimbursement were also explored.
To evaluate the treatment results of patients (pts) with Figo stage IB2, IIA, IIB cervical carcinoma (CC) treated with preoperative radiochemotherapy, followed by extended radical hysterectomy.
Given the scarcity of malignant phyllode tumours of the breast and the absence of consensus regarding their management justify the need for institutional retrospective evaluations of clinical practices.
Chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment of inoperable and/or non-resectable IIIA/B non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Aware of the necessity to increase local control in locally advanced NSCLC, we analyzed the feasibility of high-dose three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) in the treatment of localised NSCLC.
Colonoscopy is used widely for colorectal cancer (CRC) screening; however, its long-term impact on the incidence and mortality of CRC is not known.
Current surveillance guidelines for Barrett's esophagus (BE) recommend extensive biopsies to minimize sampling error. Biopsy practice patterns for BE surveillance in the community have not been well-described. We used a national community-based pathology database to analyze adherence to guidelines and to determine whether adherence was associated with dysplasia detection.
Intraluminal impedance monitoring has given new dimensions to the diagnosis of reflux disease. However, there is no defined algorithm for evaluating refractory reflux symptoms. We studied whether combined impedance/pH monitoring in patients on therapy can predict acid reflux in patients off therapy and whether testing should be carried out when patients are on or off therapy.
The increasing incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the United States is only partially accounted for by hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections. The prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is not known; guidelines from the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases do not recommend surveillance imaging. We sought to determine the prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma among patients undergoing liver transplantation for NASH-related cirrhosis and their outcome after surgery, compared with controls.
Little is known about differences in the prevalence of severe iron overload at death in whites and blacks. We evaluated data and samples from 16,152 autopsies (8484 whites, 7668 blacks) performed at a single university hospital.
It is well-established that cirrhosis negatively impacts health-related quality of life (HRQOL). However, it is less clear how to use this information in everyday clinical practice. If HRQOL predicted survival in cirrhosis, then measuring HRQOL would have important clinical implications. We sought to measure the association between HRQOL and survival in patients with cirrhosis and investigated whether the relationship between HRQOL and survival is independent of Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD).
Chronic HBV infection is prevalent among Asian immigrants and is an important cause of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The aim of this study was to evaluate the HBsAg seroprevalence and to characterize hepatitis B in persons who presented to an urban Chinatown internal medicine practice.
Patients discharged from hospital against medical advice are at risk of adverse health outcomes. The frequency and predictors of self-discharge in cirrhotic patients have not been examined.
Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is characterized by medically/surgically-resistant gastroesophageal reflux symptoms and dense squamous eosinophilia. Studies suggest that histologic assessment of esophageal eosinophilia alone cannot reliably separate patients with EoE from those with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Our goal was to develop an assay to identify EoE patients and perhaps differentiate EoE from other causes of esophageal eosinophilia.
Current guidelines recommend empirical, noninvasive approaches to manage dyspeptic patients without alarm symptoms, but concerns about missed lesions persist; the cost savings afforded by noninvasive approaches must be weighed against treatment delays. We investigated the prevalence of malignancies and other serious abnormalities in patients with dyspepsia and the cost of detecting these by endoscopy.
Oral mesalamine (5-aminosalicylate) is the current standard of care for mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis. We investigated the efficacy and safety of once daily administration of prolonged-release mesalamine granules in maintenance of remission in patients with quiescent ulcerative colitis, compared with the well established twice daily dosing regimen.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effectiveness of FDG-PET in the initial staging of HL patients in a Brazilian population.
To compare EBUS findings in esophageal cancer patients without evident signs of tracheobronchial invasion on conventional bronchoscopy with EUS and CT.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of isoflavones on the skin of postmenopausal women.
This paper aims to describe and discuss a minimization procedure specifically designed for a clinical trial that evaluates treatment efficacy for OCD patients.
The purpose of this study was to compare spirometry data between patients who underwent single-lung or double-lung transplantation the first year after transplantation.
To analyze the results obtained in the evaluation of intra-vaginal pressure using three different brands of perineometers in nulliparous volunteers.
The aim of this study is to determine clinical, pathological, and treatment-relevant variables associated with long-term (90-month) overall survival in patients with lung metastases undergoing pulmonary metastasectomy.
To evaluate the long-term outcomes of three surgical procedures for the treatment of primary congenital glaucoma (PCG).
The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of RF-EMR from mobile phones on free radical metabolism and sperm quality.
To explore methodology for the assessment of institutional scientific research productivity.
Systemic sclerosis, or scleroderma, is a rheumatic disease characterized by autoimmunity, vasculopathy, and fibrosis of the skin and several internal organs. In the present study, our aim was to assess the skin alterations in animals with scleroderma during the first stages of disease induction.
To evaluate and compare the efficiency of humidification in available heat and moisture exchanger models under conditions of varying tidal volume, respiratory rate, and flow rate.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of terlipressin versus fluid resuscitation with normal saline, hypertonic saline or hypertonic-hyperoncotic hydroxyethyl starch, on hemodynamics, metabolics, blood loss and short-term survival in hemorrhagic shock.
To develop a Graphical User Interface (GUI) that would be capable of displaying previously unencountered clinical data structures in a meaningful way.
The optimal sequence of modalities involved in breast cancer treatment with respect to radiotherapy and the maximum acceptable interval between radiotherapy and surgery need to be determined.
Especially for preservation of marginal donor organs, machine perfusion (MP) and retrograde oxygen persufflation (ROP) are alternatives to cold storage (CS). Using a porcine kidney autotransplantation model we compared metabolic and morphologic effects of CS, ROP, and MP on kidneys exposed to warm ischemia.
Fever in the neurocritical care setting is very common and has a negative impact on outcome of all disease types. Recent advances have made eliminating fever and maintaining normothermia feasible. However, important questions regarding indications and timing remain. The purpose of this review is to analyze the data surrounding the impact of fever across a range of neurologic injuries to better understand the optimal timing and duration of fever control.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is the most serious but least treatable form of stroke, with prognosis critically dependent on both the size and degree of hematoma expansion. Treatments that target hematoma expansion offer potential to improve outcomes. This review analyzes the recent literature pertaining to the medical management of ICH.
Continuous electroencephalography (cEEG) is being used more frequently in intensive care units to detect epileptic activity and ischemia. This review analyzes clinical applications and limitations of cEEG as a routine neuromonitoring tool.
This review highlights recent advances in cerebral microdialysis for investigational and clinical neurochemical monitoring in patients with critical neurological conditions.
Each year, hundreds of thousands of people will be resuscitated after a cardiac arrest. A significant portion of these patients will lapse into a disease state which is the product of modern emergency and critical care medicine: the postcardiac arrest syndrome. The ability to return a patient to his or her prior state of health after cardiac arrest, once completely beyond the capacities of clinicians, is now one of the most important areas of medical science. Much of this ability depends on preserving the nervous system from a complicated sequence of secondary injuries, which ensue from global ischemia.
Space-occupying, malignant hemispheric infarction is one of the most devastating forms of ischemic stroke. Several case series had suggested decompressive hemicraniectomy as a life-saving therapy, but, until recently, there was no proof for this procedure from randomized controlled trials.
To discuss the risk factors and underlying illnesses that play a role in the pathophysiology of stress ulcer, and to evaluate the evidence pertaining to stress ulcer-related bleeding prophylaxis in critically ill patients.
Clostridium difficile infection (CDI), long-associated with morbidity and mortality in healthcare settings, has evolved in recent years with unprecedented clinical manifestations. Today, CDI is characterized by unusually toxigenic and resistant subtypes, expanded epidemiology, and a growing list of risk factors. In this article, we discuss current trends and research for CDI in critical care settings, and new controversies that influence clinical practice.
Acute liver failure is an uncommon condition affecting about 2500 patients each year in the United States. Optimal medical management in the ICU is one of the more important factors impacting survival with or without liver transplantation. This review focuses on the practical aspects of the management of patients with acute liver failure in the ICU.
To compare polymerization efficiency of resin composite basing materials when light-cured through resin composite and fiber reinforced composite (FRC) by testing microhardness.
The aim of this in vitro study was to investigate the surface properties of dental ceramic materials belonging to different ceramic classes, and to correlate the findings to the initial adherence of three oral streptococcal strains.
Hardness of elastomers can be directly related to Young's modulus, a relationship that was investigated in detail by Gent in a paper in 1958. The aim of this study was to test this relationship for 13 dental elastomers (12 silicone and 1 polyether) using the equation derived by Gent and one from BS 903 (1950) that accounts for departures at low values.
Elemental release is important because it plays a significant role in material biocompatibility. The aim of this study was to investigate the release of metal ions from four fixed prosthodontic materials.
The objective of this study was to determine the optimal concentration of photo-initiator (camphorquinone) in an experimental one-step self-etch adhesive and to investigate the role of the photo-initiator.
The zirconia-resin bond strength was enhanced using novel engineered zirconia primers in combination with selective infiltration etching as a surface pre-treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of artificial aging on the chemical stability of the established bond and to understand the activation mechanism of the used primers.
To investigate the development of the load-bearing capacity of a ceramic-reinforced glass ionomer cement (GIC), stored dry or wet, using Hertzian indentation.
The aim of this study was to determine the concentrations of the photosensitizer (camphoroquinone, CQ) and coinitiator (ethyl-4-dimethylaminobenzoate, EDMAB) that resulted in maximum conversion but generated minimum contraction stress in experimental composites.
This study was to improve human cell growth on titanium (Ti) used for dental implants through formation of a nano-network surface oxide layer created by an electrochemical anodization treatment.
This concise review and outlook paper gives a view of selected potential future developments in the area of resin-based biomaterials with an emphasis on dental composites.
The aim of the present study was to clinically evaluate the suitability of Definite Multibond and Definite ormocer resin composite for luting of Cergogold glass ceramic inlays in a two-center trial involving two dentists.
Comonomers used in dental restorative materials, e.g. triethylenglycoledimethacrylate (TEGDMA), hydroxyethylmethacrylate (HEMA) and methylmethacylic acid (MMA) are methacrylic acid esters. Because of the chemical structure of these esters in earlier studies two different in vitro pathways were suggested. The present study was performed in order to analyze which of these chemical pathways is preferred in vitro: (a) saponification of TEGDMA, HEMA, and MMA leading to free methacrylic acid (MA) as an ionic intermediate or (b) enzymatically epoxidation of mother compounds leading to lipophilic intermediates.
To determine the differences in the opalescence parameter (OP) of indirect and direct resin composites, veneer ceramics and bovine enamel relative to the CIE standard illuminants D65, A and F2.
BisGMA, a widely used component in dentin adhesive has very good mechanical properties after curing, but is relatively hydrophobic and thus, does not adequately infiltrate the water wet demineralized dentin collagen. Developing techniques that would lead to optimum infiltration of the hydrophobic component into the demineralized dentin matrix is very important. The purpose of this study was to evaluate interfacial morphological and chemical characteristics of the resultant adhesive-dentin interface when the ethanol wet bonding technique is used with hydrophobic adhesives.
This study investigated p-octyloxy-phenyl-phenyl iodonium hexafluoroantimonate (OPPI) as a photoinitiator, in combination with camphorquinone/amine photoinitiation systems, for use with di(meth)acrylate-based composite resins. The investigation determined if the inclusion of OPPI improved degree and rate of conversion, initial color and color stability of a representative composite resin dental material.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of light-curing protocol on softening and elution of monomers in ethanol as measured on a model polymer. It was a further aim to correlate the measured values with previously reported data on degree of conversion and glass transition temperature for the same polymer and curing protocols.
The purpose of this research was to investigate the effects of decontamination and clinical exposure on the elastic moduli, hardness and surface roughness of two frequently used orthodontic archwires, namely 0.020in.x0.020in. heat activated (martensitic active) nickel titanium archwires and 0.019in.x0.025in. austenitic stainless steel archwires.
To determine polymerization shrinkage-strain (S(Y)) and shrinkage-stress (S(Z)) of six resin-cements and to compare their performance with the aid of degree of conversion (DC) data.
To examine the dose-response relationships and health impact of five common household dust allergens on disease severity, quantified using both symptom frequency and medication use, in atopic and non-atopic asthmatic children.
To examine levels of exposure and the importance of different RF-EMF sources and settings in a sample of volunteers living in a Swiss city.
The human health impact of the historic and current mining and processing of non-ferrous metals in the African Copperbelt is not known. This study assessed the exposure to metals in the population of Katanga, in the south east of the Democratic Republic of Congo, using biomonitoring.
Medical students (N=324) were examined in order to detect potential associations between lead exposure and polymorphisms in HFE, VDR, ALAD, and MT genes, as well as between mercury exposure and GSTT1, GSTM1, GSTA1, GSTP1, GCLC, and MT polymorphisms.
We sought to evaluate the utility of speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) for detecting left ventricular (LV) mechanical abnormalities during low-dose (20 microg) dobutamine stress (DSE).
The goal of this study was to test whether peculiarities of left ventricular (LV) regional function place limits on the validity of ejection fraction (EF) as a measure of the myocardial functional state.
Despite the recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography, the majority of clinicians and sonographers do not perform aortic arch analysis routinely during transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). The European guidelines remain unclear. The aim of our study is to evaluate the usefulness of aortic arch analysis during routine TTE in adults.
A reduction in tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and peak systolic velocity (PSV) of tricuspid annulus after cardiac surgery is a well-known phenomenon, even though its origin is not well established. Recently, a new three-dimensional (3D) echocardiographic software adapted for right ventricular (RV) analysis has been validated. Aims of this study were to evaluate RV function in patients with mitral valve prolapse undergoing surgical valvular repair and to compare and correlate 3D RV ejection fraction (RVEF) with TAPSE and PSV before and after surgery.
Two-dimensional echocardiographic (2DE) assessment of right ventricular (RV) function is difficult, often resulting in inconsistent RV evaluation. Real-time three-dimensional echocardiography (RT3DE) allows the RV to be viewed in multiple planes, which can potentially improve RV assessment and limit interobserver variability when compared with 2DE.
Progressive right ventricular (RV) dilation due to pulmonary regurgitation (PR) after repair of tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) may impair left ventricular (LV) filling. Our aim was to analyse long-term time courses of M-mode LV and RV measurements and to relate these to the degree of PR.
Previous studies indicate that diabetic patients show evidence of coexisting systolic and diastolic myocardial dysfunction when examined by new echocardiographic techniques. Yet, there is no systematic investigation of the serial age-related changes of left ventricular anatomy and function in this patient population.
The aim of this study was to explore the range of pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) at rest and with exercise in healthy individuals of various ages, as most studies assumed PASP &gt; 35 mmHg with exercise as the upper limits of normal.
Lack of response to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) may be due to the presence of significant amount of scar or fibrotic tissue at myocardial level. This study sought to investigate the potential impact of myocardial contractile reserve as assessed during exercise echocardiography on left ventricular (LV) reverse remodelling (decrease in LV end-systolic volume &gt; or =15% after 6 months of CRT).
The study was designed to test the influence of the temporal resolution, at which tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) and speckle tracking imaging (STI) operate, on the accurate assessment of left ventricular (LV) untwist rate (UR).
This study examined the relationships between myocardial strain (epsilon) and strain rate (SR) data, derived from both two-dimensional (2D) speckle tracking and tissue Doppler imaging (TDI), and indices of left ventricular (LV) morphology to assess size-(in)dependence of these functional parameters.
Diastolic dysfunction (DD) identifies patients with increased cardiovascular risk. The aim of this study was to investigate the regional distribution of abnormal segmental relaxation in hypertensives with normal global DD and to demonstrate the incremental value of strain echocardiography over annular diastolic velocities and global indices of DD derived by conventional echocardiography.
This study sought to find the most robust method for left ventricular (LV) rotation measurement by speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) with the new QLAB Advanced Quantification Software (version 6.0, Philips, Best, The Netherlands).
Non-invasive echocardiographic detection of coronary artery disease (CAD), even in left main or three-vessel CAD, usually requires a stress test since regional wall motion abnormalities (RWMA) are not always evident at rest. Strain is a more sensitive parameter of myocardial systolic function and may be abnormal in patients with severe CAD.
To compare B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels with response of systemic right ventricular function to Dobutamine stress.
Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) are often diagnosed at time of (impending) rupture leading to a dramatic increase of morbidity and mortality. A simple screening device might be the key solution for widespread AAA screening. This study evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of a new portable ultrasound scanner (Aortascan BVI 9600) developed for automatic AAA detection.
The SYNTAX score has been designed to better anticipate the risks of percutaneous or surgical revascularisation, taking into account the functional impact of the coronary circulation with all its anatomic components including the presence of bifurcations, total occlusions, thrombus, calcification, and small vessels. The purpose of this paper is to describe the baseline assessment of the SYNTAX score in the Syntax randomised trial, the corelab reproducibility, the potential difference in score assessment between the investigator and the corelab, and to ascertain the impact on one-year outcome after either percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) in patients with complex coronary artery disease.
To evaluate the long-term clinical outcome after drug-eluting stents (DES) implantation, and to test if patient selection could enhance their net clinical benefit.
We report 2-year outcomes in a large unselected drug-eluting stent population (N=7,492) in the TAXUS Express2 ARRIVE post-market surveillance programme (101 U.S. sites).
Significant technological improvements have made percutaneous aortic valve replacement (PAVR) simpler and safer, but the behaviour of the implanted valve over time remains unknown. We report the anatomo-pathological analysis of patients who died at different time intervals post PAVR with the CoreValve Revalving System.
To describe a new approach to percutaneous mitral valve repair and an illustrative first-in-man experience, we introduce a suture mediated "double orifice", "edge-to-edge" procedure which can be an effective surgical therapy for mitral regurgitation (MR) in selected patient.
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is increasingly being applied to the coronary arteries. However, the risks associated with the imaging procedure are not yet well defined. The purpose of the present multicentre registry was to assess the acute complications associated with the clinical use of intra-coronary OCT in a large number of patients.
Defining vessel diameters and angles that comprise coronary side-branch intersections could assist in tailoring treatments to match anatomy, improve haemodynamic flow, and minimise mechanical trauma. We sought to characterise intersections of main vessels and side-branches by measuring actual diameters, angles, and shapes at the ostia in human coronary arteries.
The purpose of this study was to examine the long-term results of the sleeve technique, which is a modification of the crush technique and capable of increasing the success of final kissing balloon inflation (FKB) in the treatment of non-left-main coronary bifurcation lesions.
To conduct a clinical registry of consecutive "real world" patients treated using the PRO-Kinetic stent at Rabin Medical Centre between January 2006 and March 2008.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of arterial access site on bleeding and ischaemic outcomes, overall and by treatment strategy, in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS).
Limited data are available on the changes that occur at the dilated site many years after coronary balloon angioplasty. The development of bioabsorbable stents may increase the importance of understanding the long term changes that occur in an unscaffolded coronary artery following balloon-mediated injury.
The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the feasibility and accuracy of a recently developed 3D system (CardiOp-B; Paieon Medical Ltd., Israel) as compared to a validated quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) system (Siemens Quantcor, Siemens Medical Solutions).
The aim of this paper is to report a method of atherosclerotic plaque tissue characterisation based on pattern recognition and assess its accuracy under conditions of potential clinical relevance.
Most acute coronary syndromes are caused by plaque rupture. The risk of plaque rupture is related to plaque composition. The purpose of this study was to validate VH-IVUS for in vivo plaque characterisation.
To classify and quantify post-expansion irregularities in durable polymer-based coatings of drug-eluting stents (DES).
Human blood vessels contain a huge amount of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), which play a significant role in the metabolism of many biological substances and participate in various metabolic pathways. The aim of this study was the investigation of the differences between the activities of ADH and ALDH in the wall of aortic aneurysm and wall of healthy aorta, that can explain the pathological background of aneurysm development.
The study examined the expression pattern of p53, BCL-2 and EGF-R proteins in the hydatidiform moles.
It was found that alpha-enolase was dramatically up-regulated in the hypertrophic hearts of SHR in our previous study. The purposes of this study were to examine the expression pattern of alpha-enolase in pre- and postnatal myocardium of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, and to explore the relationship between the overexpression of alpha-enolase and left ventricular hypertrophy.
The aim of this prospective, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was to evaluate the efficacy of a commercial combination of simethicone and activated charcoal (Carbosylane) on dyspeptic symptoms in patients consulting a general practitioner.
To evaluate the impact of a multifaceted interventional program on the compliance of hepatogastroenterologists with guidelines for Barrett's esophagus.
The goal of the study was to evaluate the prevalence and risk factors of esophageal motor disorders in systemic sclerosis.
To evaluate the utility of two biochemical tests (APRI and FIB-4) to predict liver fibrosis (LF) in prison inmates with chronic hepatitis C.
To assess the prevalence of IBS and associated factors in a population aged between 18 and 60 years old in Bucaramanga, Colombia.
To identify, describe, and conceptualize the individual needs of spouses of patients with complications of heart failure after cardiac surgery.
The aim of this study was to explore the process of dyadic benefit finding after myocardial infarction.
To describe and compare the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients (N = 367) and significant others (N = 367) and to identify factors associated with HRQoL after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
To evaluate the correlation between the clinical assessment of sedation using the Sedation-Agitation Scale (SAS) and the assessment using BIS in ventilated and sedated ICU patients.
To assess the efficacy of duloxetine for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
To evaluate the effect of melperone, a butyrophenone with atypical antipsychotic properties, on plasma prolactin (PRL) concentrations compared with clozapine and typical neuroleptics.
In clinical drug development, wakefulness and wake-promotion may be assessed by a large number of scales and questionnaires. Objective assessment of wakefulness is most commonly made using sleep latency/maintenance of wakefulness tests, polysomnography and/or behavioral measures. The purpose of the present review is to highlight the degree of overlap in the assessment of wakefulness and cognition, with consideration of assessment techniques and the underlying neurobiology of both concepts.
To compare outcomes regarding splinting versus casting of paediatric torus fractures in the ED with the aim of establishing the preferred treatment.
The aim of this study was to evaluate serum sHLA-G and sHLA-A, -B, -C levels in both AR patients and healthy controls.
The neuropeptide, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), is an endogenous antagonist of inflammation. Injections of alpha-MSH peptide into inflamed tissues have been found to be very effective in suppressing autoimmune and endotoxin mediated diseases. We evaluated the potential to suppress ocular autoimmune disease (uveitis) by augmenting the expression of alpha-MSH through subconjunctival injections of naked adrenocorticotropic hormone amino acids 1-17 (ACTH1-17) plasmid.
To describe the development of the International Network of Agencies for Health Technology Assessment (INAHTA) and its activities.
To describe the development and application of health technology assessment (HTA) in Australia.
The aim of this article is to describe and analyze the stages toward recognition and implementation of health technology assessment (HTA).
This paper gives an overview of health technology assessment (HTA) in Belgium.
To provide an overview of the development of health technology assessment (HTA) in Germany since the 1990s.
To describe and explore the reasons for the current health technology assessment (HTA) landscape in the United States.
The mainly tax-paid healthcare system in Denmark is decentralized with three defined policy and management levels. Health technology assessment (HTA) as a concept was introduced in the beginning of the 1980s. Significant implementation only happened when the first national strategy for HTA was developed by relevant stakeholders and issued as an official document in 1996. The introduction and the further development are described.
The aim of this study was to review the history of health technology assessment (HTA) in Italy.
The current and past situation of health technology assessment (HTA) in Catalonia is presented in this study.
The aim of this study was to describe the history and present situation with health technology assessment (HTA) in Israel.
The aim of this study was to describe the Norwegian contribution to the broad picture of our international health technology assessment (HTA) history.
The aim of this study was to describe generally the development and present situation with health technology assessment (HTA) in the United Kingdom.
To analyze evolution of the health technology assessment (HTA) at the national level in South Korea.
Malaysia, as a rapidly developing country, has been facing tremendous pressures in its attempts to maximize scarce resources. Despite this problem, Malaysia has made great strides in developing its health services, and has successfully provided good access to the population to healthcare services, reduced the incidence of many communicable diseases, and improved life expectancies and other global indices of health care, some of which are comparable to that of developed countries.
This study aims to review the development of health technology assessment (HTA), including the socioeconomic context, outputs, and policy utilization in the Thai setting.
The objectives of this study are to review the financing and organization of the Argentine healthcare system, the licensing and drug price setting mechanisms, the benefit packages and coverage policies of pharmaceuticals and other medical technologies, as well as the development of HTA in Argentina, and the role of the Institute of Clinical Effectiveness and Health Policy (IECS) as an HTA agency. Finally, the perspectives and future of HTA as a tool to make resource-allocation decisions and priority setting in Argentina is discussed.
The history of health technology assessment (HTA) in Mexico is examined, starting with the efforts to incorporate this topic into the policy agenda and culminating with the recent creation of a specialized public agency.
The aim of this study was to describe the history of health technology assessment (HTA) in France.
To review Switzerland's mixed public and private healthcare system with regard to health technology assessment (HTA).
Although health technology assessment (HTA) has been well established in all developed countries, it has not found a firm footing in many developing countries. This is especially true of the Asia Pacific region, which has much of the world population.
The aim of this report was to describe the history of health technology assessment (HTA) in The Netherlands.
The aim of this study was to describe the characteristics of the introduction and diffusion of health technology assessment (HTA) in Spain.
The aim of this study was to discuss the development of health technology assessment (HTA) in the Philippines.
The aim of this study was to describe the developing health technology assessment (HTA) activities in Brazil, both historically and in the present day.
To describe how Lithuania is attempting to develop health technology assessment (HTA) structures.
This study is to review health technology assessment (HTA) development in China during the past two decades, and to facilitate further development of HTA and its integration into policy making.
To compare the effectiveness and timeliness of electrolyte replacement in an adult ICU before and after implementation of an Electrolyte Replacement Protocol (ERP) and to assess nurse and physician satisfaction with the ERP.
Nurses in the cardiovascular intensive care unit (CVICU) informally expressed moral angst when caring for patients who are approaching the end of life. The purpose of this study was to better understand CVICU nurses' perceptions about their roles and responsibilities in the decision-making process about change in intensity of care and end-of-life care for patients within the CVICU setting.
To explore adolescent health seeking behavior during pregnancy and early motherhood in order to contribute to health policy formulation and improved access to health care. This will in long-term have an impact on the reduction of morbidity and mortality among adolescent mothers and their newborns.
The aim of this study was to develop an algorithm for scheduling pick-up and delivery tasks in hospitals. The number of jobs and the dynamic nature of the problem, in having jobs arriving over time, makes the use of information technology indispensable. An optimized scheduling for all types of transportation tasks occurring in a hospital accelerates medical procedures, and reduces the patient's waiting time and costs.
To describe the design characteristics and use of a clinician-designed information tool in supporting information transfer and care coordination
We assessed the feasibility of a high-pitch scan mode with a dual-source CT system.
We evaluated the performance of a novel, high-definition 64-slice CT scanner (HDCT), with improved spatial resolution (0.23 mm) and applied statistical iterative reconstruction (ASIR) for evaluation of coronary artery stents.
We assessed the effective radiation doses of MDCT with a 320-row detector volume scanner.
To compare the performance of stress radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) and coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) in terms of outcomes.
This study was designed to determine the frequency and characteristics of CCTA imaging of unsuspected acute myocardial infarction in the ED.
To determine changes in response to a selective serotonin-1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) following long-term consumption of sugar as part of meal in rats.
To determine the role of Exercise Tolerance Test (ETT) and Thallium Stress Test (TST) in the detection of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) among soldiers.
To determine the frequency of flare-ups in single-visit endodontic treatment and the associated factors.
The aim of this study was to determine the outcomes of transhiatal esophagectomy for dysphagia for esophageal malignancy in terms of short and long-term morbidity and mortality and to determine the survival series.
To assess the frequency and degree of hepatic steatosis in patients of chronic hepatitis C infection and determine its correlation with stages of fibrosis and necro-inflammatory grades.
To determine the relationship between anthropometric variables with blood glucose and lipid concentrations in different stages of hypertension and evaluate the risk factors involved in progression of pre-hypertension stage in to clinical hypertension stage-1.
To assess the safety and acceptability of a single dose of vitamin-D versus the efficacy of injectable Vitamin-D versus oral vitamin-D.
To determine the perinatal outcome of high risk pregnancies, in terms of perinatal mortality, Apgar score, birth weight and neonatal complications in first week after birth.
To assess the visual outcome and complications after removal of posterior segment retained intraocular foreign bodies through pars plana approach.
To determine the frequency and clinical presentation of amoebic diarrhea in children and its effect on the nutritional status of the affected children.
Because we have little information about the arteries in the left atrium, this study was performed to evaluate the anatomy of these arteries, and to compare them with previously reported ablation lines. Coronary angiography was performed in 262 patients. Atrial coronary arteries between the left atrial appendage and the left superior pulmonary vein (LAA-LSPV region), as well as between the left inferior pulmonary vein and the mitral annulus ("mitral isthmus" region) were examined.
This study assessed the feasibility of modification of atrioventricular (AV) conduction under direct vision with a new ablation system using laser energy.
Heart failure (HF) affects five million patients each year with both prevalence and incidence increasing with age. At least 20% of hospital admissions in patients &gt; age 65 are due to HF. Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been shown to improve HF symptoms and decrease mortality. However, little data are available which specifically address the effects of CRT in the elderly (&gt;65).
We wanted to illustrate the right-to-left impulse propagation routes during sinus in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF), as alterations in conduction patterns have been linked to the pathogenesis of PAF, and as no large patient materials have been published.
A comparison of treatment parameters and quality of clinical outcome in patients with single brain metastases treated with two different technologies for radiosurgery (Gamma Knife and CyberKnife).
The purpose of our study was to determine the statistical significance of thresholds of relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and ADC ratios in grading cerebral gliomas.
To evaluate prospectively local tumor control and morbidity after fractionated CyberKnife radiosurgery for uveal melanoma unsuitable for ruthenium-106 brachytherapy or local resection.
Estradiol (E2) acts to modulate the ratio of two dopamine D2 receptor isoforms (D2L/D2S) by the nuclear estrogen receptor (ER) and to reduce dopamine's inhibitory action on PRL secretion. Here we demonstrate the correlation between the expression of ER mRNA and D2R mRNA isoforms in pituitary neoplasms cells.
To evaluate the prognostic accuracy of combining perfusion CT (PCT) and thrombolysis in brain ischemia (TIBI) ultrasonographic grade in the triage of stroke patients who will benefit from thrombolysis and in predicting the clinical outcome.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of onyx for embolization of brain arteriovenous malformations (BAVM).
A discussion paper outlining the potential for a multi-qualified health practitioner who has undertaken a programme of study incorporating the strengths of the specialist nurse with other professional routes.
The concept and the context of 'nursing' is wide and generalized across the healthcare spectrum with a huge number of practitioners in separate branches, specialities and sub-specialities. As a profession, nursing consists of different groups in alliance with each other. How different is the work of the mental health forensic expert from an acute interventionalist, or a nurse therapist, from a clinical expert in neurological deterioration? The alliance holds because of the way nurses are educated and culturalized into the profession, and the influence of the statutory bodies and the context of a historical nationalized health system. This paper discusses the potential for a new type of healthcare professional, one which pushes the intra- and inter-professional agenda towards multi-qualified staff who would be able to work across current care boundaries and be more flexible regarding future care delivery. In September 2003, the Nursing and Midwifery Council stated that there were 'more than 656 000 practitioners' on its register and proposed that from April 2004, there were new entry descriptors. Identifying such large numbers of practitioners across a wide range of specialities brings several areas of the profession into question. Above all else, it highlights how nursing has fought and gained recognition for specialisms and that through this, it may be argued client groups receive the best possible 'fit' for their needs, wants and demands. However, it also highlights deficits in certain disciplines of care, for example, in mental health and learning disabilities. We argue that a practitioner holding different professional qualifications would be in a position to provide a more holistic service to the client. Is there then a gap for a 'new breed' of practitioner; 'a hybrid' that can achieve a balanced care provision to reduce the stress of multiple visits and multiple explanations?
To identify nurses' priorities for topics and issues to be addressed by a developing nursing research program at a county hospital.
The study sought to evaluate stakeholder perspective of preceptor preparation and attributes.
A graduate entry workforce for nurse registration has been approved for England by 2010/11. The aim of this research was to discover the immediate tasks facing nurse managers in implementing that change. Previous research has focused on making the case for change rather than on implementation.
This article reports on a PhD study and follow up work undertaken to review and develop a tool for assessment of practice.
Documenting the journey of graduate nurse support in New Zealand from local programmes to a nationally consistent framework.
This study reports on a locally organized model of succession planning in a 550-bed general hospital.
This paper explores the collaborative development of a Master's level advanced practice programme in the context of the radical reform and remodelling of the UK's National Health Service. Some of the educational, managerial and practice challenges are discussed.
The aim of this study was to explore the challenges of providing continuity within the 24-hour nursing service. It explored why nurses work at night and what issues this raises for them.
This paper reports on a Training Needs Analysis for Non-Medical Prescribers commissioned by a south of England Strategic Health Authority.
This mapping study describes current or planned introduction of assistant practitioner roles in English National Health Service Acute Hospital Trusts.
The aim of this study was to explore new nursing and midwifery roles and associated levels of practice from the health care providers' perspective. This paper will present findings relating to the perceived cost effectiveness of these roles and their impact on patient care.
We examined the impact of empowering work conditions on nurses' work engagement and effectiveness, and compared differences among these relationships in new graduates and experienced nurses.
To review developments within the past 18 months on the utilization of PDE5I in preclinical studies and clinical practice. The focus of this article is on updates on regular dosing regimens of PDE5I other than the newly approved daily dose tadalafil.
To identify the current prescribing pattern of off-label testosterone use in treating HSDD.
Compare the effect of FK506 (FK) and rapamycin (RAP) on erectile function (EF) recovery and FKBP expressions in penis and major pelvic ganglion (MPG) after cavernous nerve (CN) injury.
To establish lifetime and recent prevalence rates for vibrator use by men in the United States, to document the characteristics of men who use vibrators and their reasons for using vibrators, and to explore relations between men's vibrator use and sexual function.
The incidence of invasive breast cancer among past and current testosterone users.
Among a representative sample of married women in the Iranian capital, Tehran, we aimed to determine the association of self-reported coerced anal sex with: (i) self-reported coerced vaginal sex; (ii) self-reported non-sexual violence; (iii) psychopathology; and (iv) marital attitude.
We herein evaluate the impact of vascular risk factors on postoperative sexual functions in patients undergo CABG.
The aim of this study was to determine the lifetime and recent prevalence of women's vibrator use during masturbation and partnered sex, and the correlates of use related to sociodemographic variables, health behaviors, and sexual function.
This study prospectively examined the effectiveness of a PFPT intervention in treating the pain and sexual and psychological components of PVD, and determined predictors of greater treatment success.
To test the hypothesis that satisfaction with sex life, life in general, sexual partnership, and mental health correlates directly with frequency of penile-vaginal intercourse (PVI) and inversely with frequency of both masturbation and partnered sexual activity excluding PVI (noncoital sex).
We investigated the independent relationships between BMI, WC, and physical activity with ED.
To provide an alternative dosing option for certain men who may benefit from the removal of the temporal linkage between administration of an ED therapy and sexual intimacy or for men and their partners who anticipate at least twice-weekly sexual activity.
We evaluated correlations between ICP, BP, ICP/BP, and VPE, and the magnitude of the nerve stimulation required to elicit those responses in order to evaluate age-related changes in erectile function in a rodent model.
The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of sexual dysfunctions in TGCC patients 3 to 5 years after treatment, and relate findings to biochemical hypogonadism, treatment intensity, and the expected prevalence in the Swedish male population.
The aim of this study is to investigate whether normal variations in emotional intelligence--the ability to identify and manage emotions of one's self and others--are associated with orgasmic frequency during intercourse and masturbation. To our knowledge, this is the first such study in a large unselected population.
To compare conservative and surgical treatment modalities in terms of duration of hospitalization, early and late complications such as penile nodule and curvature, erectile dysfunction, and painful erection.
To assess the relationship between ED, OD, and DL and overall sexual satisfaction in men with type 1 DM, and determine which form of dysfunction causes the most bother.
In this first exploratory study, we aimed to identify the existence and mechanism of H(2)S pathway in female sexual physiology.
To present the efficacy of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5is) as a preventive measure against ischemic priapism recurrences complicating thalassemia intermedia.
Our aim was to investigate the relationship between ED and mortality in HF patients, to evaluate whether the etiology of HF carries a prognostic measure in patients with ED, and to assess the impact of PVD on mortality in optimally treated HF patients with ED.
Our goal is to describe an uncommon event in prosthetic surgery, and discuss the pathophysiology and ways to treat and perhaps avoid this occurrence.
We investigated the differential expression and distribution of endothelial cell-to-cell junction proteins in the penis of mice with hypercholesterolemia-induced erectile dysfunction.
The present prospective, controlled study was initiated to investigate the effect of fractionated prostate irradiation on the arteries of the corpora cavernosa.
The present article provides a tutorial on the various EEG methods currently used to study the human brain activity, notably during sexual response.
To define attitudes and practice patterns of clinicians who were members of the International Society for Sexual Medicine (ISSM) and/or its affiliated societies.
To evaluate the treatment-seeking patterns and their correlates for ED in type 2 diabetic patients.
This work reports on a male patient suffering a deforming subcutaneous mass in the penis following penile girth augmentation by injection therapy using synthetic material, and describes its management, and pathologic analysis of the extracted tissue.
To assess the usefulness of computed tomography arthrography of the stifle in diagnosing meniscal tears in dogs with cranial cruciate ligament insufficiency.
To describe the computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging features of segmental caudal vena cava aplasia and associated vascular anomalies in dogs.
To compare the effects of the Sirius rescue sheet with gel pads versus gel pads alone on intraoperative body temperature in dogs less than 10 kg.
Canine intranasal neoplasia is commonly evaluated using computed tomography to indicate the diagnosis, to determine disease extent, to guide histological sampling location and to plan treatment. With the expanding use of magnetic resonance imaging in veterinary medicine, this modality has been recently applied for the same purpose. The aim of this study was to compare the features of canine intranasal neoplasia using computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging.
We sought to define the long-term outcome of surgically treated solitary fibrous tumors of the pleura.
Thymic carcinomas are considered to be more aggressive than thymomas and carry a worse prognosis. We reviewed our recent experience with the surgical management of thymic tumors and compared the outcomes and patterns of relapse between patients with thymic carcinoma and those with thymoma.
Airway replacement after long-segment tracheal resection for benign and malignant disease remains a challenging problem because of the lack of a substitute conduit. Ideally, an airway substitute should be well vascularized, rigid, and autologous to avoid infections, airway stenosis, and the need for immunosuppression. We report the development of an autologous tracheal substitute for long-segment tracheal resection that satisfies these criteria and demonstrates excellent short-term functional results in a large-animal study.
Recurrent intrathoracic thymomas may have an unpredictable behavior. Cell-cycle protein expression has proven useful in predicting outcome in a variety of neoplasms. We investigated its potential prognostic importance in recurrent intrathoracic thymomas.
We advanced the open stent-grafting technique with a branched endoprosthesis, which reconstructs simultaneously the cervical branches and descending aorta within an acceptably short interval of deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of this new technique and assessed the early and midterm results.
Myocardial viability and left ventricular dyssynchrony are important predictors of long-term outcomes in patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that assessment of myocardial viability and left ventricular dyssynchrony will predict perioperative mortality in high-risk patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction having coronary artery bypass surgery.
In active infective endocarditis the need for operating simultaneously on the aortic and mitral valves is frequent. There are no studies in the literature documenting long-term outcomes of double valve surgery for active endocarditis.
The radial artery is frequently the second graft of choice after the left internal thoracic artery in coronary artery bypass graft surgery. However, the optimal radial artery proximal anastomosis site remains controversial. The aim of the present study was to compare the radial artery patency according to its use as either an aorta-radial artery graft or composite radial artery graft in coronary artery bypass grafting.
The Ross procedure offers good autograft function and low reoperation rates for the neoaortic valve; however, the rate of conduit dysfunction in the right ventricular outflow tract remains a concern. This study assessed percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation in this setting.
This study assessed clinical condition at midterm follow-up after total cavopulmonary connection for a functionally univentricular heart performed on children younger than 5 years.
Our goal was to determine flow distribution in the cavopulmonary connections of patients with and without bilateral superior venae cavae who had the Fontan procedure. No large series exists that establishes the flow distributions in Fontan patients, which would be an important resource for everyday clinical use and may affect future surgical reconstruction.
Congenital heart defects with a component of pulmonary stenosis are often palliated in childhood by disrupting the pulmonary valve, either by means of dilation or excision. It is unclear what factors affect a patient's ability to tolerate long-term pulmonary insufficiency before requiring pulmonary valve replacement. We analyze potential factors that are related to the interval between pulmonary valve disruption and pulmonary valve replacement.
This study examined midterm results after treatment with the endovascular Talent thoracic stent graft (Medtronic/AVE, Santa Rosa, Calif) in patients with acute or chronic aortic dissection.
During coronary surgery, proximal vein graft anastomoses have been performed by using an aortic partial occlusion clamp to allow for a hand-sewn anastomosis. The purpose of this multicenter, prospective, randomized trial was to evaluate the efficacy of the PAS-Port device (Cardica, Inc, Redwood City, Calif), which allows an automated proximal anastomosis to be performed without aortic clamping.
We have developed an image-guided surgical system based on invisible near-infrared fluorescent light. Presently, the only clinically available near-infrared fluorophore is indocyanine green, which fluoresces at approximately 800 nm and is used for coronary angiography. Our objective was to determine whether methylene blue, already US Food and Drug Administration approved for other indications, has useful near-infrared fluorescence properties for image-guided cardiac surgery.
Recovery from pediatric cardiac surgery is affected by ischemia-reperfusion injury, cardiac edema, and in some cases a low cardiac output syndrome. Although association has been made between the development of edema and dysfunction, modeling is confounded by intercurrent injurious stimuli that also cause cardiac edema and dysfunction. We tested whether a true causal relationship exists between edema and cardiac dysfunction.
Patients with severely reduced left ventricular function undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting have increased complication rates. We hypothesized that temporary postoperative atrial synchronous biventricular pacing would improve left ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass.
We have evaluated a new technique of cardiac de-airing that is aimed at a) minimizing air from entering into the pulmonary veins by opening both pleurae and allowing lungs to collapse and b) flushing out residual air from the lungs by staged cardiac filling and lung ventilation. These air emboli are usually trapped in the pulmonary veins and may lead to ventricular dysfunction, life-threatening arrhythmias, and transient or permanent neurologic deficits.
Vascular endothelial growth factor, a critical factor in angiogenesis, mediates stem cell paracrine protective effects on ischemic myocardium. Studies on the role of sex in stem cell function have demonstrated that female mesenchymal stem cells produce greater vascular endothelial growth factor and provide better cardiac protection compared with male mesenchymal stem cells. The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanisms by which estrogen affects mesenchymal stem cell function as a potential therapeutic measure during ex vivo expansion, before therapeutic use.
Right ventricular failure manifests in 25% of left ventricular assist device recipients because of ventricular coupling mechanism disruption. Septal ischemia accentuates this process, but the effect of septal infarction has not been elucidated. Right ventricular response to incremental left ventricular unloading was studied in sheep with septal infarction.
We sought to compare the diagnostic yields of acid-fast bacilli smears and Mycobacterium tuberculosis cultures in terms of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and histologic examination of transbronchial lung biopsy specimens for pulmonary tuberculosis by using bronchoscopy with versus without endobronchial ultrasonography in patients with negative acid-fast bacilli smears or no sputum production.
The inflammatory process of aortic stenosis involves the differentiation of aortic valve myofibroblasts into osteoblasts. Osteopontin, a proinflammatory glycoprotein, both stimulates differentiation of myofibroblasts and regulates the deposition of calcium by osteoblasts. Osteopontin levels are increased in patients with such conditions as end-stage renal disease, ectopic calcification, and autoimmune disease. We hypothesized that increased plasma osteopontin levels might be associated with the presence of aortic valve calcification and stenosis.
Elevated uric acid levels have been associated with an adverse cardiovascular outcome in several settings. Their utility in patients undergoing surgical revascularization has not, however, been assessed. We hypothesized that serum uric acid levels would predict the outcome of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
This study investigates the effects of controlled reoxygenation cardiopulmonary bypass on oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and organ function in children undergoing repair of cyanotic congenital heart defects.
The aim of this study was to assess the predictive value of microvascular abnormalities and lipofuscin observed in endomyocardial biopsy samples for the development of cardiac allograft vasculopathy.
The aim of this study was to evaluate right and left ventricular functions in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension after living-donor lobar lung transplantation compared with those without hypertension.
Optimum strategy for salvage in patients with acutely decompensated end-stage heart failure and severe multiorgan dysfunction is complex. We present our experience with prolonged CentriMag (Levitronix, Waltham, Mass) support for transitioning patients after successful salvage from bridge to decision directly to transplant.
In this study, we used platelets from four patients with congenital deficiency of FXIII-A to study the role of cFXIII in platelet functions.
We hypothesized that 5-HT could also stimulate platelet receptor shedding after binding to the membrane 5-HT receptor (5-HT2AR).
To verify differences in warfarin reversal patterns using FFP, recombinant FVIIa (rFVIIa), and PCC; and to test the hypothesis that supratherapeutic International Normalized Ratios (INRs) might not correlate with thrombin generation (TG) and identify the ideal concentrations of PCC required to reverse various INR thresholds.
To determine the incidence and nature of the HIT immune reaction in patients with APS and/or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
We have investigated the effect of two corticoids, dexamethasone and prednisone, on the conformational consequences of L-ASP treatment on antithrombin.
Measure levels of MP TF activity and activation of coagulation in control and endotoxemic mice.
AVE5026 is a novel, hemisynthetic, ultra-low-molecular-weight heparin (ULMWH), which is in clinical development for prevention of venous thromboembolism. Its unique structural features result from the highly selective depolymerization of heparin by the phosphazene base that protects the antithrombin (AT)-binding site from destruction. In the present paper, we describe the chemical and biological characteristics of AVE5026, as well as its effects on experimental thrombosis as compared to those of the low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) enoxaparin after a single subcutaneous (s.c.) administration in certain animal models.
We investigated the contribution of LAC, and antibodies directed against the phospholipids cardiolipin (aCL), phosphatidylserine (aPS), and the phospholipid-dependent cofactors beta2-glycoprotein I and annexin V, to the risk for ischemic stroke.
To give a detailed biochemical description of the mechanism of coagulopathy following 30%in vivo dilution with HES, to present a systematic ex vivo test of various hemostatic agents, and to investigate the hypothesis that acquired fibrinogen deficiency constitutes the most important determinant of the coagulopathy.
To characterize the inhibitory activity of a VWF inhibitory aptamer.
The propositus and his daughter have been reinvestigated and characterized at the molecular level. The identified mutations were expressed in COS-7 cells to evaluate the mechanism of this variant.
Proteolysis of human recombinant VWF (rVWF) by ADAMTS13 present in the plasma of different species typically used as preclinical animal models was investigated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of rVWF.
The present study evaluates the role of Syk in human platelets using the novel inhibitor R406.
To analyze the mechanism of PLC activation downstream of alpha2beta1 that is required for regulation of Rap1b and alpha(IIb)beta3.
The purpose of this study was to elucidate the molecular bases of the heterogeneity of the B subunit of coagulation factor XIII (FXIII-B), classified by isoelectric focusing into its three population-associated major phenotypes.
Here, we investigated the DOX-induced platelet cytotoxicity and its underlying mechanism in an effort to elucidate the contribution of platelet cytotoxicity to DOX-induced thrombocytopenia.
We undertook a study to pre-test seven case vignettes, and thereby to assess practice patterns and, when possible, guideline adherence in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) by French hematologists.
Limbic encephalitis (LE) associated with antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels (VGKC-Ab) have recently been reported as an immunotherapy responsive encephalitis typically not associated with cancer. In the present study, we report the clinical, radiological and evolution features of LE associated with VGKC-Ab in our area.
Due to its easy use and low complication rates, argon plasma coagulation (APC) it is most common method of endoscopic treatment for gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE). We analyze both the long term effectiveness of APC for the treatment of GAVE and its side effects.
The aims of this study were to know the prevalence of the psychopathological alterations among patients with morbid obesity (MO) candidates for bariatric surgery in our centre, to analyze its predictive value on the surgical outcome and to study the evolution after weight stabilization was achieved.
We aimed to estimate what proportion of the increase in the frequency of legally induced abortions in Spain can be attributed to abortions performed in immigrant women.
To describe a simple technique of cultivating human corneal epithelial stem cells using an Epilife culture medium under serum- and feeder-free conditions.
To investigate the association between Apolipoprotein E (APOE), tumor suppressor protein p53 (p53), and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A (p21) genes and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in a cohort of Turkish subjects.
To determine the expression of muscarinic receptor subtypes (mAChRs) in human and mouse scleral fibroblasts (SFs), to investigate the mechanism that mediate the role mAChRs play in cell proliferation, and to explore the underlying intracellular signaling pathways involved in mouse SFs with treatment of muscarinic agents.
The thoracoacromial pedicle is the major pedicle of the pectoralis major flap which is still frequently used in cervicofacial loss of substances reconstruction. The classical landmark of this pedicle is the intersection between the acromioxyphoid line and the medioclavicular line. The aim of this study was to determine the exact location of the pedicle compared to the classical landmark in case of narrow pectoralis major flap.
To determine the agreement between peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measurements from Stratus time domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) and Cirrus spectral domain OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) in normal subjects and subjects with glaucoma.
To study the relationship between retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measured by time domain (Stratus) and spectral domain (Cirrus HD) optical coherence tomography (OCT).
To compare the optical biometry measurements and intraocular lens (IOL) power estimation using the IOLMaster (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) in phakic eyes and eyes with hydrophobic acrylic lenses.
To evaluate accommodation in patients with Marfan's syndrome using optical coherence tomography (OCT).
To evaluate the clinical outcomes in patients with recurrent corneal erosions who received anterior stromal puncture by use of neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG) laser.
To examine the microscopic anatomic features of lower eyelid retractors in Caucasians, specifically looking for an anatomic division of the retractors into 2 layers, as is present in the Asian eyelid.
To compare methods of removing epiretinal membranes (ERM) and evaluate the usefulness of the double brilliant blue G (BBG) staining and double-peeling method.
To provide normative data for children tested with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) charts.
To evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of 4 doses and several exposure times of intravitreal microplasmin given before pars plana vitrectomy for vitreomacular traction maculopathy.
To evaluate the histologic changes occurring in the transplanted amniotic membrane in human eyes.
To characterize the concentration-time profile of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) in human aqueous after a single, 20-mg, intravitreal injection.
To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction achieved by the most frequently prescribed antiglaucoma drugs in patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG).
To evaluate and compare the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) measurement variability, diagnostic sensitivity and specificity for glaucoma detection, and strength of the structure-function association obtained with a spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) device (Cirrus HD-OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA) and a time-domain OCT device (Stratus OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc.).
To investigate the safety and effectiveness of the AcrySof phakic angle-supported intraocular lens (IOL) (Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, TX) for correction of moderate-to-high myopia in adults.
To assess long-term functional and cosmetic outcomes after frontalis suspension using fascia lata autografts for congenital ptosis in Asian children.
To learn whether dilating the pupil will have an impact on glare testing for cataract evaluation.
To evaluate fluorescein angiography (FA) in eyes with aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity (AP-ROP).
To determine the efficacy and safety of periocular triamcinolone acetonide (40 mg) for the prevention of macular edema in patients undergoing plaque radiotherapy for uveal melanoma.
To investigate whether the presence of silent cerebral infarct (SCI) is related to field progression in patients with newly diagnosed normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
To determine the prevalence of cataract surgery and the postoperative visual outcome in the adult Chinese population living in rural and urban regions of Greater Beijing.
To evaluate the clinical value of the monocular therapeutic drug trial in predicting long-term intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction.
To assess the rate of recurrence, complications, and cosmesis after recurrent pterygium removal with P.E.R.F.E.C.T. for PTERYGIUM (Pterygium Extended Removal Followed by Extended Conjunctival Transplant).
To identify whether histopathologic and immunoassay biomarkers of inflammation are predictive for allograft rejection after penetrating keratoplasty (PKP) for herpes simplex virus (HSV) keratitis.
To investigate in vivo corneal changes in patients with bullous keratopathy who underwent non-Descemet's stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (nDSAEK) with the use of laser confocal microscopy.
Recent retrospective analyses have suggested that postoperative endophthalmitis may be more frequent with 25- than 20-gauge pars plana vitrectomy (PPV). Because the infection risk may depend on the suturing status of the sclerotomy, and the perioperative anti-infection protocol, we compared the incidence rate of endophthalmitis after sutureless 25-gauge versus sutured 20-gauge PPV on a large cohort of patients operated with a standardized perioperative anti-infection protocol.
To determine the incidence of full-thickness macular holes in Olmsted County, Minnesota.
To determine the role of the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT) (Cellestis Inc., Carnegie, Australia) assay in the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) uveitis.
To review what is known about the normal maturation of stereoacuity, the stereoacuity deficits associated with infantile and accommodative esotropia, the rationale for making improved stereoacuity a goal of treatment, and strategies for improving stereoacuity outcomes.
To compare vergence adaptation to +2 D addition lenses in myopic and emmetropic children and to evaluate the influence of the accommodative-vergence crosslink (AC/A ratio) on this adaptation.
Corneal and crystalline lens shape differ in Down syndrome (DS) compared with developmentally normal populations. This study specifically explored the association between corneal curvature and refractive error for the first time in DS.
Cortical visual impairment (CVI) is a leading cause of bilateral vision impairment. Because many patients with CVI cannot perform an optotype test, their acuity is often measured with a grating stimulus using a preferential looking (PL) test or the visual-evoked potential (VEP) recording. The purpose of this study is to determine the relationship among VEP vernier acuity, VEP grating acuity, and behavioral grating acuity in patients with CVI.
To describe the clinical characteristics and recent findings in the heterogeneous group of inherited disorders of melanin biosynthesis grouped as "albinism."
Detection of amblyopia in infants and toddlers is difficult because the current clinical standard for this age group, fixation preference, is inaccurate. Although grating acuity represents an alternative, studies of preschoolers and schoolchildren report that it is not equivalent to the gold standard optotype acuity. Here, we examine whether the Teller Acuity Cards (TAC) can detect amblyopia effectively by testing children old enough (7.8 +/- 3.6 years) to complete optotype acuity testing.
To evaluate white sphere kinetic perimetry (WSKP) as a test of the peripheral visual field in young children with a history of epilepsy and treatment with Vigabatrin (VGB). VGB is an antiepileptic medication that is associated with visual field constriction.
To investigate the relationship among microfluctuations in accommodation, resting tension on the crystalline lens, ciliary body thickness, and refractive error in children.
The incidence of early brain injury in children is rising, mainly because of changing reproductive demographics and better perinatal care. Early brain injury may be associated with altered visual perception and visuospatial attention. The useful field of view test (UFOV) has been developed to assess visual attention and processing speed in the elderly. The UFOV may have utility in the evaluation of children with early brain injury. The aim of this study was to collect age-specific normative data for the UFOV test.
Previous studies in children report reduced accommodative responses with minus lens-stimulated demands compared with proximal demands. This study seeks to identify age-related changes in accommodative lag with minus lens-stimulated demands in subjects from preschoolers to adults.
The Developmental Eye Movement (DEM) test is commonly used as a clinical visual-verbal ocular motor assessment tool. However, while the DEM test ratio has been reported to correlate with horizontal saccadic eye movements, there have been no published comparative studies of the DEM test and objective eye movement measures. The aim of this study was to compare DEM test performance with explicit quantification of saccadic eye movements, reading performance, symptomatology and visual processing speed, to assess the validity of the DEM test in clinical practice.
To evaluate the relationship between accommodation, visual acuity, and emmetropization in human infancy.
The visual system undergoes major developmental changes in infancy and continues to mature throughout childhood. This study was designed to investigate the developmental change in the contrast response function and the neural mechanisms that contribute to this change.
The importance of testing children's color vision, particularly to identify color vision deficiencies at an early age, has long been agreed on by teachers and color vision researchers and healthcare workers. The classic color vision tests were not necessarily developed for children's cognitive abilities, even though they are commonly used to assess children's color vision. Although, in the past, psychologists have studied color seriation abilities of children, they have not necessarily chosen isoluminous stimuli, which would minimize brightness cues. This investigation was designed to assess the ability of children to seriate a gray series.
To investigate the functional impact of amblyopia in children, the performance of amblyopic and age-matched control children on a clinical test of eye movements was compared. The influence of visual factors on test outcome measures was explored.
Global visual integration is fundamental to shape and face recognition. Although the maturation of local visual function, such as resolution acuity, has been well documented, less is known about the changes in global visual function during development and with aging.
To provide population-based normative data for monocular visual acuity (VA) and interocular differences in VA (IOD) in Black and Hispanic children 30 to 72 months of age without visually significant refractive errors or ophthalmic abnormalities.
To document the pattern of and ability of sickle cell anemic patients to manage painful crises at home.
To evaluate the possibility of a correlation between BAEP and DTI of the inferior colliculus in preterm infants.
We describe the appearance and evaluate the frequency of THADs in neonates &lt; or =1 month of age compared to other infants younger than 2 years.
To demonstrate the imaging features of extrarenal RTs outside the CNS.
To review the incidence of spinal cord anomalies in those with a low lesion and those with a high (including intermediate) anorectal malformation (ARM), and to determine the best diagnostic imaging strategy.
To develop an MR imaging protocol without the need for fluoroscopic insertion of an enteral tube and to assess the disease activity in children with IBD.
To describe the imaging findings in five patients, with emphasis on the usefulness of sonographic studies.
We describe the clinical course and imaging findings in three infants with neonatal hemochromatosis associated with patent ductus venosus. We paid special attention to the diagnostic challenges encountered in these patients in order to emphasize some of the potential diagnostic pitfalls.
To formulate rifampicin, an anti-tuberculosis antibiotic, for aerosol delivery in a dry powder 'porous nanoparticle-aggregate particle' (PNAP) form suited for shelf stability, effective dispersibility and extended release with local lung and systemic drug delivery.
To enhance the water affinity of W/O emulsion-adjuvanted vaccines, we used three bioresorbable polymers named PEG-b-PLA, PEG-b-PCL, and PEG-b-PLACL as hydrophilic emulsifier to stabilize the interfaces between the oily Montanide ISA 51 adjuvant and the antigen media.
Antineoplastic RNAse proteins, also known as Amphibinases, have been shown effective against various solid tumors but were found selectively neurotoxic to Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. This work describes the use of a waxy biodegradable poly(ricinoleic-co-sebacic acid) for the local controlled delivery of cytotoxic amphibinases in the parietal lobe of the brain in an attempt to overcome cerebellar neuronal toxicity while affecting glioma cells.
Repeated administration of exogenous proteinic compounds triggers the production of specific antibodies. This reaction is limits not only pharmacokinetic studies in animal but also development of human or humanized proteins as drugs. We investigated the effect of co-administration of tacrolimus on pharmacokinetic of human interferon-alpha (h-IFN) following multiple subcutaneous administration in rats.
To predict the absolute oral bioavailabilities (BAs) of drugs in humans without using pharmacokinetic data from intravenous administration in humans.
Emerging evidence clearly suggests the potential chemopreventive and anti-tumor activity of a well known "natural agent" curcumin. However, studies have shown that curcumin is not readily bioavailable, and thus the tissue bioavailability of curcumin is also poor except for gastrointestinal track. Because of the potential biological activity of curcumin, many studies have attempted for making a better analog of curcumin that is equally effective or better with increased bioavailability, which was the purpose of our current study.
To develop a mechanism-based pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) model to characterize and predict the bidirectional effect of danshensu on plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) in rats described in our previous paper.
To study the inhibition patterns of the three major human ABC transporters P-gp (ABCB1), BCRP (ABCG2) and MRP2 (ABCC2), using a dataset of 122 structurally diverse drugs.
The objective was to elucidate the inhibition requirements of the human organic cation/carnitine transporter (hOCTN2).
To develop a new minimal-stress model for intranasal administration in freely moving rats and to evaluate in this model the brain distribution of acetaminophen following intranasal versus intravenous administration.
Labrasol and Gelucire 44/14 are defined admixtures of acylglycerols and PEG esters which are substrates for digestive lipases.
To determine the in vitro sub-cellular localization and in vivo efficacy of chitosan/GMO nanostructures containing paclitaxel (PTX) compared to a conventional PTX treatment (Taxol).
To describe the absolute neutrophil counts (ANC) profile in breast cancer patients receiving high-dose of chemotherapy and peripheral blood stem-cells (PBSC) transplantation.
The suitability of fexofenadine as a probe substrate to assess hepatobiliary transport function in humans was evaluated by pharmacokinetic modeling/simulation and in vitro/in situ studies using chemical modulators.
To improve the gene delivery efficiency and safety of non-viral vector in liver cells, avidin, which exhibited good biocompatibility and remarkable accumulation in liver, was bioconjugated with biotinylated polyethylenimine to obtain a novel gene vector.
The maximum flux of solutes penetrating the epidermis has been known to depend predominantly on solute molecular weight. Here we sought to establish the mechanistic dependence of maximum flux on other solute physicochemical parameters.
Approximately 50% of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) are manufactured and formulated as salts, due to their enhanced dissolution rates or improved solid state properties. It is essential to maintain the appropriate solid state form of the drug during processing and over the lifetime of the product. The aim of this study was to investigate the contributing factors in the process of disproportionation, whereby the salt converts back to the free form of the drug.
Chitosan is one of the most sought-after components for designing nanoparticles for drug delivery applications. However, despite the large number of studies, reproducibility is often an issue; generally more attention should be focused on purity and precise characterization of the starting material, as well as on the development of robust preparative procedures.
To investigate the influence of particle size and polymer properties on the topical delivery of a lipophilic "active" species (Nile Red (NR)) from sub-micron polymeric particles.
The development of particle-based carriers for transepidermal drug delivery has become a field of major interest in dermatology. In this study, we investigated the suitability of biodegradable poly-lactic acid (PLA) particles loaded with fluorescent dyes as carriers for transepidermal drug delivery.
Stratifin is a potent anti-fibrogenic factor that stimulates the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) in dermal fibroblasts. The propose of this work was to develop a controlled release delivery system for stratifin that can be applied at the time of wound closure to release stratifin and stimulate the expression of MMP-1 in a sustained manner over the late stages of wound healing (after 3 days).
To test the potential of water-soluble divalent cationic salts to inhibit acylation of octreotide encapsulated in poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid)-star (PLGA) microspheres.
To determine the rate and the primary types of medication dispensing errors detected by pharmacists during implementation of a unit dose drug dispensing system.
To develop and validate a psychometric measure of cognitive moral development in professional ethics in pharmacy.
Patient use of over-the-counter (OTC) medicines contributes to improving public health and reducing public pharmaceutical expenditure. However, little is known of patient experiences of pharmacy distribution and services related to OTC medicines. The aim of this study is to explore patient experiences of purchasing OTC medicines in Flemish community pharmacies.
This study aimed to evaluate the safety for an injection with a mixture of extracts from Herba Artemisiae annuae, Fructus Gardeniae and Flos Lonicerae and to determine the risk factors that may affect its adverse drug reactions.
To develop a questionnaire ("A14") for the description of adherence and individual barriers as basis for adherence-enhancing interventions in the clinical and pharmaceutical setting, and to compare it to the validated German MMAS (Morisky Medication Adherence Scale).
Patients are not always weighed in hospitals. A visual estimate of patients' body weight is often used. Little information exists about the validity of this practice. We assessed the visual estimation of body weight in a population of elderly hospitalised patients.
Assessment of the value of the widely used ICD-10 codes for drug-allergies (e.g. Z88, L27) as triggers for decision support in an electronic prescription system and evaluation of the potential impact of such an alert system. We also evaluated the usefulness of manual drug allergy notes recorded in patients' charts in the prevention of prescribing errors due to drug allergies.
(1) To determine the prevalence of metformin prescribing in type 2 diabetes with a contraindication and (2) to explore whether metformin use on top of contraindications modified the risks of lactic acidosis, hospitalization, and death in type 2 diabetes.
To develop, pilot and determine the feasibility of a sleep-specific screening and awareness program in community pharmacies.
The implementation of Medicare Part D in 2006 has the potential to advance the profession of pharmacy through the provision and remuneration of pharmacist-provided medication therapy management (MTM) services. Limited research has evaluated physician attitudes toward pharmacist-provided MTM services, and little is known about factors that may affect these attitudes. The aim of this study was to test a model of physicians' attitudes toward pharmacist-provided MTM services as a part of Medicare Part D.
Congenital heart disease (CHD) remains a significant cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality. This study evaluates the success of fetal echocardiography (FECHO) in guiding delivery management in pregnancies complicated by CHD.
To evaluate the role of various new models of 3- and 4-dimensional (3D and 4D) ultrasound (US) applications in prenatal assessment of fetal cardiac anomalies.
To analyze the different variables that affect couples' decision-making about prenatal screening of chromosome abnormalities in a population with limited access to prenatal diagnosis and no legal termination of pregnancy (TOP).
We studied the vascular effects of betamethasone (BM) and/or tracheal occlusion (TO) in fetal rabbits with surgically induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH).
To assess the outcome following an ultrasound diagnosis of isolated fetal omphalocele (normal karyotype).
Delineate prenatal features of Costello syndrome (caused by HRAS mutations), which consists of mental retardation, facial, cardiovascular, skin, and musculoskeletal anomalies, and tumor predisposition.
Nonvisualization of the fetal gallbladder by ultrasound poses a diagnostic dilemma. The aim of the study was to establish reference values for the hepatobiliary enzyme gamma-glutamyl-transferase (GGT) in amniotic fluid in normal pregnancies, and to determine the maximal week of gestation in which reference values can be determined.
To assess the alterations of mRNA expressions associated with oxidative stress in the cellular component of blood from pregnant women with pre-eclampsia.
To develop a one-tube fluorescent multiplexed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to perform prenatal diagnosis of haemophilia A (HA).
Both cancer diagnosis and the consequent treatment are particularly challenging for adolescent patients. Adjuvant psychological interventions to reduce cancer-related distress are therefore a fundamental part of a multidisciplinary treatment. Assuming that psycho-oncology has to consider developmentally specific aspects, this review summarizes empirical studies of the efficacy and effectiveness of psychosocial interventions for adolescent cancer patients.
We measured the perceived risk for developing gastric cancer and investigated how a range of socio-demographic, lifestyle, health, and psychological factors were associated with risk perception in a population-based sample in Korea.
The purpose of this study was to examine the predictors of treatment decision evaluation in patients with cancer.
The impact of diagnosis and treatment for breast cancer, stressors that affect emotional well-being, is influenced by several psychosocial factors and the relationships among them. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between optimism and emotional well-being (EWB) and the individual and combined mediation of this relationship by perceived social support (SS), problem focused coping (PFC), and self-transcendence in women with breast cancer during radiation therapy.
Although rates for first-time and recent mammography screening have increased for women in the US in the past decade, rates for repeat mammography remain low. This study aimed to conduct an analysis of women's mammography experience, to examine the rates of repeat mammography and to identify the significant predictors of repeat mammography within 12 and 18 months of the index mammogram.
The objectives were to describe parent-rated and physician-rated prognosis in a wide range of pediatric cancers and to describe the prevalence and predictors of parental prognostic optimism in poor prognosis pediatric cancer patients.
Total or partial nasal amputation following tumour resection is one of the more severe facial disfigurements. Successful nasal reconstruction can therefore be regarded as restoring a patient's psychosocial health. The objective of this study, therefore, was to evaluate different determinants of patient's psychosocial functioning and their effect on patient satisfaction after nasal reconstruction.
To determine how spirituality is associated with health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in an ethnically diverse cohort of low-income men with metastatic prostate cancer.
Various studies have demonstrated that neuropsychological deficits are potential side-effects of adjuvant therapy in breast cancer patients. To date, little is known about the long-term development of these deficits and their implications for patients' everyday life.
The present paper reports about the content and evaluation of a psycho-educational group intervention for children growing up with a history of cancer, Op Koers Oncologie (OK Onco). OK Onco is aimed at empowerment of survivors of childhood cancer by teaching disease-related skills. The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate whether OK Onco was appropriate for use among paediatric survivors of childhood cancer.
To characterize the sexual function of both prostate cancer patients and their partners, and to examine whether associations between sexual dysfunction and psychosocial adjustment vary depending on spousal communication patterns.
To assess whether childhood cancer survivors experience difficulties in their romantic relationships during emerging adulthood (18-25 years) and to identify who may be at risk for long-term social sequelae.
The present study investigated the anxiolytic-like profiles of H3-selective agonists in a variety of classical (benzodiazepine-sensitive) and atypical (antidepressant-effective) animal models of anxiety. Comparator drugs used were diazepam and both fluvoxamine and desipramine in the former and latter models, respectively.
The present study utilized an intravenous drug self-administration protocol of increasing cocaine access to evaluate potential changes in dopamine function in vivo, including changes in sensitivity to psychostimulants.
We assessed the effects of repeated amphetamine (AMPH) treatment in rodents on two distinct forms of decision making.
This study investigated whether the efficacy of aripiprazole can be predicted by functional HTR2A A-1438G/T102C polymorphisms (rs63311/rs6313) as modified by clinical factors in Han Chinese hospitalized patients with acutely exacerbated schizophrenia.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to assess neural response to uncued unpleasant affective pictures in 21 unmedicated patients with MDD compared to 21 matched healthy controls, taking into account genetic influences of the 5-HTT (SCL6A4) high- and low-expression genotype.
To develop more effective treatments, a juvenile animal model of depression was tested to validate it as a possible model to specifically study pediatric depression.
In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that TRPV1 channel contributes to the modulation of anxiety-like behavior in the mPFC.
The present study assessed the feasibility of promoting smoking abstinence using once- rather than thrice-daily abstinence monitoring and the relationship between different durations of initial abstinence and changes in smoking preference.
Our aim was to characterize in the rat changes in the rewarding properties of a pharmacological and a natural stimulus following olfactory bulbectomy (OBX), a pre-clinical animal model of depression.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of manipulating brain monoamine levels on stop task parameters.
To compare the motivational effects of the synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 (WIN) in adolescent and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), a validated animal model of ADHD, and Wistar rats, representing a "normal" genetically heterogeneous population. We also asked whether the effects of WIN depended (1) on the activation of the cerebral subtype of cannabinoid receptors, namely, the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor and (2) on putative changes by WIN in blood pressure.
The aim of this study was to assess the role of dopamine in the behavioral effects of MDMA in two nonhuman primate species.
To further resolve such conjecture, the present study systematically compared eight different NMDA receptor antagonists: MK-801, PCP, ketamine, memantine, SDZ 220,581, Ro 25-6981, CP 101-606 and NVP-AAM077, in a series of variable interval (VI) schedules of reinforcement. Aspects of motivation as indexed in these tasks may well be impaired in schizophrenia and undoubtedly impact on the capacity to perform more complex, explicit tasks of cognition.
Sigma receptors have been implicated in appetitive effects of psychostimulants and in high levels of ethanol intake. This study tested the hypothesis that the sigma-1 receptor subtype (Sig-1R) may modulate ethanol intake.
to determine factors associated to amniotic fluid volume and frequencies of fetal anomalies, in a reference center in Pernambuco.
to apply geoprocessing techniques for the spatial birth profile analysis of each municipality.
to characterize, phenotypically, yeasts isolated from the vaginal content of 223 symptomatic (S) and asymptomatic (A) adult women with vulvovaginitis, and to determine the clinical indicators which may lead to the appearance of signs and symptoms related to the mucosa involvement by this pathology.
to observe the impact of obesity and other risk factors on the rate of failure in patients submitted to Burch's surgery for the treatment of urinary incontinence.
to identify species of lactobacillus isolated from the vaginal contents of healthy and asymptomatic women, determining the most prevalent species and characterizing them phenotypically.
to evaluate the quality of life of post-menopause women, users and non-users of hormonal therapy (HT), in a Healthcare Unit in Franca, São Paulo, Brazil.
The aim of this study was to investigate the association between the intensity of craving and the types of coping skills used by nicotine-dependent patients.
To investigate the connection between knowledge about and the attitudes towards drug abuse by students displayed by public school educators in Brazil.
To evaluate suicide seasonality in the city of São Paulo within an urban area and tropical zone.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between depression and illicit drug dependence among a Latin-American population.
The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that the polarity of the first mood episode may be a marker for suicidal behavior, particularly the violent subtype.
To evaluate the quality of life during the first three years of training and identify its association with sociodemographicoccupational characteristics, leisure time and health habits.
Brazil lacks information about driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) originated from representative samples obtained from the general population.
Evidence from family and molecular genetic studies support the hypothesis of involvement of immunologic mechanisms in the pathophysiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder. The nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor-like 1 (NFKBIL1) has been suggested as a modulator of the immunological system. Given the importance of NFKBIL1 in the immunological response, the present study investigated the -62A/T polymorphism (rs2071592), located in the promoter region of its gene (NFKBIL1), as a genetic risk factor for the development of obsessive-compulsive disorder.
In the present study, we investigate the association between the val66met polymorphism of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BNDF) and the performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test in a sample of Caucasian Brazilian patients with bipolar disorder.
To compare the performances of children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with a group of control comparison subjects, both taken from a large clinical sample, using some of the most widely employed attention-based Brazilian tests.
Experimental evidence has suggested that drugs that enhance cannabinoid type-1 (CB1) receptor activity may induce anxiolytic and antidepressant effects, whilst the opposite has been reported with antagonists. Thus, the objective of the present review is to discuss the potential psychiatric side-effects of CB1 receptor antagonists, such as rimonabant, which has been recently marketed in several countries for the treatment of smoking cessation, obesity and associated metabolic disorders.
A large increase in the number of Brazilian studies on psychiatric genetics has been observed in the 1970's since the first publications conducted by a group of researchers in Brazil. Here we reviewed the literature and evaluated the advantages and difficulties of psychiatric genetic studies in the Brazilian population.
Despite the growing evidence of the benefits of physical exercise for cognition, there is a controversy about the systematic practice of physical activity in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, the objective of this study was to procedure a systematic review of studies that analyzed the effect of systematized physical activity on cognitive performance in elderly individuals with Alzheimer's disease.
Literature review of the controlled studies in the last 18 years in emotion recognition deficits in bipolar disorder.
To determine reference ranges of fetal nasal bone length (NBL) in a Chinese population and to assess the value of NBL measurement in screening for chromosomal defects in the first trimester.
Anomalies of the corpus callosum are frequently diagnosed during pregnancy, but a thick corpus callosum is a rare finding and its significance is not clear. We aimed to assess the significance of thick fetal corpus callosum by reviewing our experience of such cases.
To evaluate embryonic brain mantle measurements using intrauterine sonography in the early first trimester.
To analyze the evolution of computerized cardiotocography (cCTG) parameters throughout gestation in a large archive of traces from healthy fetuses.
Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is associated with cerebroplacental redistribution (CPR), fetal stress and poor outcome, all of which may be related to dysfunction of the fetal myocardium. The aim of this study was to specifically assess myocardial function in IUGR fetuses with CPR in comparison with normal fetuses using color Doppler myocardial imaging (CDMI).
To evaluate the understanding of health professionals involved in first-trimester ultrasound screening of the ethical stakes involved by addressing three questions regarding: how much these professionals know about Down syndrome screening by nuchal translucency thickness measurement; their personal opinion with respect to this screening test; and their attitude with respect to their patients, in order to answer the question: 'Are ethical principles respected when women are proposed ultrasound screening during the first trimester of pregnancy?'
To determine the ability to correctly identify Cesarean section scars, to estimate the prevalence of defective scars, and to determine the size and location of scar defects by transvaginal ultrasound imaging.
To assess the fetal loss rate following amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling (CVS).
To evaluate the ability of endometrial thickness after medical abortion to predict the need for subsequent dilatation and curettage (D&amp;C).
To assess whether early fetal growth restriction in a twin, expressed as the intertwin discrepancy in crown-rump length (CRL) between two viable twins at 7 + 0 to 9 + 6 weeks' gestation, is predictive of subsequent single fetal loss.
To examine the performance of the new algorithm in screening for trisomy 21 by a combination of maternal age, fetal nuchal translucency (NT) and maternal serum free beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG) and pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A).
The congenital bony and musculoskeletal defect of the pelvis in bladder exstrophy-epispadias complex (BEEC) highly predisposes females to uterine prolapse. There is a paucity of knowledge on the anatomy of the pelvic soft tissue structures following surgery. The aim of this study was to investigate with transperineal three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound the pubovisceral muscle in females with BEEC who had undergone surgical reconstruction in childhood.
Myocardial tissue Doppler (MTD) is a technique for the measurement of myocardial velocities in systole and diastole. This study evaluates the use of MTD in the assessment of cardiac diastolic function in fetuses with intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) with placental insufficiency and in appropriate-for-gestational age (AGA) fetuses with hypertensive mothers.
To investigate whether maternal history and ultrasound findings can be predictors for massive hemorrhage during Cesarean section in patients with placenta previa and adherence of the placenta.
To determine whether intrauterine contraceptive devices (IUDs) that are located abnormally within the myometrium or cervix cause a higher incidence of pelvic pain and abnormal bleeding compared with normally positioned devices.
The cavum veli interpositi (CVI) is a space within the double-layered tela choroidea of the third ventricle. Occasionally, this space is fluid-filled and sonographically visible as an interhemispheric anechoic cyst. Because of its rarity, the incidence of CVI cyst is undetermined and the outcome of affected individuals has been found to be variable. The aim of this study was to report our experience of the sonographic findings and outcome of fetuses affected by CVI cysts.
To determine the prevalence of clinical symptoms associated with Cesarean scar defects, and to determine the association between the size of these defects, clinical complaints, uterine position, and a history of multiple Cesarean sections.
Preterm delivery is the leading cause of major perinatal morbidity and mortality associated with triplet pregnancies. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of ultrasound-indicated cervical cerclage in triplet pregnancies that are diagnosed with cervical shortening on biweekly transvaginal sonography (TVS).
To investigate genomic DNA imbalances in ependymomas (EDMs) and their correlations with the tumor histological types, grades, locations, patients' gender and age.
To study the clinicopathologic features of brain tumors occurring in patients with medically intractable epilepsy.
To study the histopathologic changes of primary brain stem injury and to investigate their significance in the diagnosis of primary brain stem injury.
To investigate unusual pathological features of olfactory neuroblastoma (ONB) and its correlation with the clinical prognosis.
To study the pathological characteristics, diagnosis and differential diagnoses of hemangiopericytoma-solitary fibrous tumor with giant cells.
To study the morphologic and immunophenotypic features of angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL), as well as the origin of the proliferative follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) in AITL.
To investigate the significance of sonic hedgehog (Shh), indian hedgehog (Ihh), smoothened (Smo) and patched (Ptch) expressions in uterine cervical lesions and their relationships with HPV type 16 infection.
To investigate the pharmacological effects and underlying mechanism of azidothymidine (AZT) on human glioblastoma cells in vitro.
To study the cytologic features of pancreatobiliary tumors in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)-guided brushing preparations and to evaluate the usefulness of cytology in the diagnosis of pancreatobiliary malignancy.
To study the value of immunomarkers CXCL13, CD10, bcl-6 in pathologic diagnosis of angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL).
To study the immunophenotypic and genetic features of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs), and their relationship to prognosis.
To study the clinicopathologic features and prognostic factors of extranodal nasal type NK/T-cell lymphoma (EN-NK/TCL) in Chinese patients.
To study the clinicopathologic features, diagnosis and differential diagnosis of splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (SMZL).
To study the clinicopathologic features of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, unspecified (PTL-U) with follicular pattern.
To evaluate the practical values of PCR detectable T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement in paraffin embedded tissue samples in the diagnosis of T-cell malignancies using BIOMED-2 PCR multiplex tubes TCRgamma(A+B).
To investigate the diagnostic application of molecular detection of enterovirus type 71 (EV71) infection using post-mortem paraffin-embedded tissue.
To investigate the effect of KISS-1 expression on the potential of invasion and proliferation of esophageal squamous carcinoma cell EC-1.
To explore biological aspects of Tiam1 gene expression in nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells.
To study the significance of c-myc, p53 and p16 protein expression in fibrous dysplasia, to detect the GNAS1 gene mutation in fibrous dysplasia, and to explore the property of fibrous dysplasia.
To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics, diagnosis and differential diagnoses of proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma (PES).
To study the clinicopathological features, immnophenotype and differential diagnosis of low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (LGFMS).
To study the clinical, radiologic and pathologic features of solitary plasmacytoma of spine.
To study the clinicopathologic features, diagnosis and differential diagnosis of malignancies in giant cell tumor (MGCT).
To analyzed a large group of invasive breast cancers with long-term follow-up information to evaluate the clinicopathologic, morphological and prognostic features of basal-like breast cancers in Chinese population.
To study the clinicopathologic features and differential diagnosis of small cell variant of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL, NOS).
To study the clinicopathologic features and prognostic significance of ZAP-70 protein expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL).
To investigate the clinicopathologic manifestations of non-compaction of ventricular myocardium (NVM).
To explore significance of high-risk human papillomavirus (HR-HPV) testing in atypical squamous cells, cannot exclude high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (ASC-H).
To investigate the correlation between the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of +33C/T in the promoter region of IL-4 gene and +1923C/T in intron-3 region of IL-13 gene and the susceptibility of asthma, and to study the impact of these polymorphisms upon total serum IgE levels.
To observe the influence of matrine on airway inflammation and early airway remodeling in asthmatic mice.
To investigate the effects of leptin on airway inflammation and the expression of Th1/Th2 cytokines.
To investigate the effect of montelukast (MK) on airway inflammation and remodeling in asthmatic rats, and to explore the regulating role of MK on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptors.
To establish a real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RFQ-PCR) method for quantifying a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) mRNA in sputum samples from patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and to evaluate its role in the diagnosis of NSCLC.
To study the inhibition of angiogenin (ANG) expression in human lung squamous cancer cell strain-A549 through adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated RNA-interference, and therefore to observe its effect on the growth of cancer cells and tumor formation.
To investigate the prevalence and risk factors of obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) in adults aged over 20 years in Fuzhou city, there fore to provide epidemiological data for prevention and treatment of the disease, and establishing a data base for prospective study.
To observe the changes of thrombi and vessel intima in a rat model of venous thromboembolism (VTE).
To evaluate the quality of life (QOL) of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and correlated factors.
To assess the impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) on the quality of life and economic burden in Chinese urban areas.
To examine the cost for patients who died in hospital with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD) compared with those died with lung cancer, and to examine their variations.
To investigate the clinical, pathological and radiological characteristics of pleural tuberculoma, so as to improve the understanding of this disease.
To study the relationship between the polymorphisms of GST M1 and GST T1 genes and anti-tuberculous drug induced hepatic injury (ADIH).
To evaluate the basic knowledge of asthma, the standardization of treatment and the continuing education with community physicians in Hangzhou.
To evaluate the effect, complications and safety of transbronchoscopic balloon detection (TBD) and selective bronchus occlusion (SBO) for intractable pneumothorax.
To determine the capability of alveolar fluid clearance and the changes of sodium channel in alveolar type II cells (ATII) in oleic acid-induced acute lung injury.
To explore the effect and the molecular mechanisms of peroxisome proliferators activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) and its ligand on airway mucus hypersecretion.
To investigate the effects of endothelin-1 (ET-1) overexpression on hypertrophy of the rat pulmonary arterial microvascular smooth muscle cells (RPMCs) in vitro.
To investigate the effect of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) on the differentiation, formation and function of the dendritic cell (DC) in peripheral blood of patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
To investigate the role of COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib in enhancing the lethal effects of bleomycin in Tca8113 cell line.
To investigate the manifestation of oral squamous cell carcinoma with metastatic lymph nodes in whole-body diffusion weighted imaging (WB-DWI) and its clinical significance.
To analyse the reliability of concomitant venae of facial artery as the donor vein in microvascular autologous submandibular gland transfer.
To investigate the correlation between moderate to severe periodontitis and coronary heart disease (CHD) and to examine the serum C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in subjects with CHD and/or moderate to severe periodontitis.
To analyze the stress distribution in all-ceramic crowns when it was subjected to load.
To investigate the ultrastructure character of sclerotic dentin surface conditioned by the Er, Cr: YSGG laser and acid etching.
To investigate the feasibility of establishing a murine hemangioma model with injection of recombinant adeo-associated virus mediated human vascular endothelial growth factor-121 (rAAV-hVEGF(121)) gene.
To evaluate the shear bond strengths of four dental adhesives in vitro.
To investigate the expression of survivin during oral carcinogenesis and its relationship with the expression of Bcl-2 and p53.
To investigate the potential mechanism of "osseoperception" which is the sensory and motor experience associated with dental implants.
To examine the activation and cytotoxicity of human peripheral blood T lymphocyte induced in vitro by human 4-1-BB ligand (4-1-BBL) gene transfected into tumor Tca8113 cells.
To examine the expression of Ezrin in human salivary gland adenoid cystic carcinoma and investigate the effects of Ezrin gene silence on cell proliferation, apoptosis and invasion of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC)-M.
To investigate the prevalence of dental erosion and associated drinks in 12-year-old adolescence of Beijing.
To obtain regulating proteins during human periodontal ligament cell (hPDLC) osteogenic differentiation and investigate its underlying molecular mechanism.
To investigate the actual relationship between the impacted mandibular third molars (IMTM) and the mandibular canals on panoramic radiographs and cone beam computed tomography (CBCT).
To investigate the expression of immune-related genes during osteogenesis stimulated by simvastatin.
To detect the mutation and expression of SH-3BP-2 in Chinese patients of cherubism and to investigate the possible relationship of gene mutation and multinucleated giant cells in lesions.
To investigate the reduction in residual ridges of maxillary edentulous models duplicated from old and new complete dentures using the 3-D data analysis.
To investigate the effect of magnetron sputtered ZrN on the bonding strength between a low-fusing porcelain (Ti/Vita titankeramik system) and commercially pure cast titanium.
To evaluate effects of incorporating tetrapod-like zinc oxide whisker (T-ZnOw) antibacterial agent on the antibacterial activity of composite resin, compared with that of the silver-based inorganic antibacterial agent.
To evaluate the shaping ability of hand-used ProTaper on curved canals using Endodontic Cube.
To explore a method for classifying root abnormality and to investigate the status of root abnormality in patients with aggressive periodontitis (AgP).
To investigate the effects of advanced oxidative protein products (AOPP) on the proliferation, apoptosis and matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) synthesis of the human gingival fibroblast (HGF). To explore the possible mechanism of the periodontal destruction acceleration in diabetes through AOPP-mediated oxidative stress.
To evaluate the effects of gingival fibroblasts (GF) transfected with hTGF-beta1 gene on improving the periodontal tissue regeneration for the repair of degree II artificial furcation defects.
To establish the expression and purification route for human amelogenin mature peptide in Escherichia coli and obtain the purified amelogenin (AMG) mature peptide.
To examine the extent of hypoxia in oral squamous cell carcinoma and investigate the factors related to the hypoxia.
To investigate the relationship between the expression of cytokeratin (CK)-18 and biological behavior of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
To investigate the tongue movement during swallowing in skeletal Class III adult patients using M-mode ultrasonography combined with cushion scanning technique.
To construct a three-dimensional finite element model of mandible and to analyze the stress distribution in mandible advanced with Forsus.
To synthesize nano-hydroxyapatite (nano-HA) and evaluate its effect on the occlusion of dentinal tubules in vitro, and therefore provide evidence for the clinical application.
To observe the expression and function of extraction.
To investigate the genetic aberrations in extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas from different sites of the body in Chinese patients.
To explore the effect of adriamycin, bleomycin, vincristine and dacarbazinum (ABVD) chemotherapy scheme executed at day 1 and day 8 for primary Hodgkin's lymphomas (HL).
To identify the clinical and pathological features of blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDC).
To explore the clinical characteristics of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM) and enhance the level of diagnosis and treatment.
To investigate the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of dyslipidemia as well as its treatment and influence on accompanying diseases in impaired glucose status among inpatients.
To study the factors influencing the outcome of patients suffering from in-hospital ventricular fibrillation (IHVF), as there have been few studies focusing on this topic.
To investigate the expression and significance of activator protein-1 (AP-1) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) subjects.
To evaluate the significance of dilated intercellular space (DIS) of squamous epithelium in lower-esophagus which was measured at light microscopy (LM) in the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
To assess the incidence, types and risk factors of atherothrombotic events (AT) within 7 days after transient ischemic attack (TIA) with ABCD2 Score in Chinese patients.
To evaluate the value of serum procalcitonin (PCT) on antibiotic use in treatment of community acquired pneumonia (CAP) in outpatient.
To evaluate the in vitro activity of daptomycin, vancomycin, teicoplanin, tigecycline, ceftobiprole and linezolid against 499 strains of blood-isolated gram-positive cocci.
To evaluate the usefulness of serum galactomannan (GM) for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in critically ill patients.
To investigate the pathological changes and pathogenesis of the MELAS syndrome (mitochondrial encephalopathy lactic acidosis stroke-like episodes) by using the method of immunohistochemical staining in the brain biopsy specimens with anti-mitochondrial antibody (AMA).
To investigate the pathogenicity of late-onset Alzheimer disease from the viewpoint of comparative proteomic technology and to screen it from diseases with related protein markers.
To explore statin dosages for targeting goal of LDL-C lowering on the basis of stroke risk stratification and the dosage-effective relation of statin and LDL-C lowering in Chinese patients with ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA).
To investigate the correlation of CAGs repeat size and age of onset in patients with Kennedy's Disease (KD).
To evaluate the correlating clinical factors of coronary artery calcification score (CACS).
To search for the distinctive diagnostic features of Crohn's disease and intestinal tuberculosis in clinical manifestations with methods widely used clinically.
To investigate the inhibitory effect of thalidomide on angiodysplasia.
To assess the clinical significance of three different noninvasive airway inflammatory indices in induced sputum and exhaled breath condensate (EBC) from persistent asthmatic patients.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of nateglinide with those of acarbose in Chinese type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients.
To determine the factors that influence the development of abnormal thyrotropin (TSH) level in an euthyroid population.
To explore the significance of NK cell activity, interleukin-2 receptors (sCD(25)) and glycosylated ferritin in the early diagnostic of acquired hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH).
To evaluate the impact of the percentage of residual blasts in bone marrow at the end of induction chemotherapy (T1) or during myelosuppression phase (T2) on prognosis of de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (non M(3)) in 105 cases. To refine AML risk-stratification by combining the percentage of residual blast cells (T1 or/and T2) with cytogenetic data based the South West Oncology Group (SWOG) criteria.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is the most common inherited eye disease that usually leads into blind, and is high simplex and clinical heterogeneity. Recent years, some new hereditary forms have been found, such as digenic RP, mitochondrial RP, incomplete dominant inheritance RP. The phenotype of RP is multiplicity. Incompatible phenomenon between genotype and phenotypes was shown in some genes such as peripherin/RDS, RHO, RP2 and RP3. The complicated phenotype was shown in the rare RP forms, such as centricity RP, stemma RP, retinitis pigmentosa sine pigmento, and retinal degeneration slow. Retinal transplantation, retinal implantation, drug and neurotrophic factor therapy, and gene therapy have been well studied worldwide and presented some hopeful efficacy. Ophthalmologists and practitioners should cognize the new advance and new knowledge on RP therapy with a scientific view for better serving the RP patients.
To establish oxygen-induced retinal neovascularization in mice and to detect the expression of mTERT in mice.
To explore the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor of vitreous in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and to analyze the relative factors.
To investigate the Change of DNA content (apoptosis rate), mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim) and calcium (Ca(2+)) of rabbit retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells cultured with curcumin.
To evaluate the effect of the injection of silicone oil in helping the remove of intraocular foreign body throughout pars plana vitrectomy (PPV).
To display the detail functional anatomy of ocular motor nerves in the orbits, cavernous sinus and brainstem by high-resolution MRI.
To investigate the etiology, clinical features, treatment and prognosis of toxic anterior segment syndrome (TASS).
To assess the clinical features and management of choroidal metastasis.
To map and detect the gene responsible for congenital nuclear cataract in a Chinese family.
To determine vision quality when testing two acrylic intraocular lenses, AcrySof IQ and AcrySof Natural, after routine cataract extraction and IOL implantation.
To analyze the characteristics of the retrobulbar blood vessels' hemodynamics changes and the choroidal circulation disorder, and to observe the relations between retinal pigment epithelium's (RPE) pathological changes and them.
To study the metabolism of 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), one of lipid derived aldehydes (LDAs), in diabetic rat lens and its role in diabetic cataract formation.
To clarify the proliferation of bovine corneal endothelial cells (bCEC) by interference with the recombinant plasmid of short hairpin RNA (shRNA) against p27Kip1, a kind of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CKI).
To investigate the expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) in the sclera of lamina cribrosa in rat chronic elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and its the relationship with the pathogenesis of glaucoma.
To investigate the clinical manifestation and follow-up of melanocytoma of the optic disc.
To study the clinical characteristics of choroidal metastasis (CM) to promote the early diagnosis and differentiate from other choroidal tumors.
To summarize the treatment outcomes of orbital adenoid cystic carcinoma and to evaluate prognostic factors.
To detect the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), lung resistance associated protein (LRP) and multidrug resistance associated protein (MRP) in retinoblastoma (Rb), to analyze the relationship between the expression of multidrug resistant (MDR) markers with clinic-pathological factors, the correlations among these three markers, and to study the possible mechanism of multidrug resistance in Rb.
To explore if vasculogenic mimicry (VM) exists in retinoblastoma (Rb) and to explore the clinical significance of VM.
To study the development of stereopsis in children from 30 to 50 months of age.
To assess the visual outcomes and accommodative amplitude of accommodating intraocular lens (AIOL).
To assess the repeatability and difference of ocular wavefront aberrations measured with ray-tracing, dynamic skiascopy, and Hartmann-Shack aberrometers.
To evaluate the effect of trabeculectomy on intraocular pressure (IOP) and complications in eyes with primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG).
To analyze the morphology of human bulbar conjunctiva by in vivo laser scanning confocal microscopy.
To investigate the effects of J2 on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in mice.
To study the expression of CD11b in the retinal microglia in laser induced ocular hypertension (OHT) SD rat.
To analyse the whole level and impact of ophthalmological periodicals in China.
To assess the efficacy in patients undergoing pars plana vitrectomy for the treatment of idiopathic macular hole (IMH).
To evaluate the effects of scleral buckling combined with intravitreal gas injection for the treatment of retinal detachment in selected eyes which had undergone vitrectomy but without silicon oil tamponade.
To analyze the clinical presentations, and explore the diagnosis, and differential diagnosis of combined hamartomas of the retina and retinal pigment epithelium (CHRRPE).
To provide microanatomical data for optic canal decompression surgery or paranasal sinus surgery through anatomical study on adjacent structures of the optic canal.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of plasmin or hyaluronidase in the inducing of posterior vitreous detachment in diabetic rats.
To compare the corneal astigmatism and wavefront aberration differences of patients with cataract coexisting corneal astigmatism after phacoemulsification surgery through traditional superior clear corneal incision or phacoemulsification surgery through clear corneal incision guided by corneal topography and implantation of different spherical aberration intraocular lenses (IOL).
To investigate the indications, surgical procedure, clinical efficacy, and the prevention and management of complications of Descemet's stripping with endothelial keratoplasty (DSEK) for bullous keratopathy.
To evaluate the outcome of embolization via orbital surgical exposure for a series of orbital varices.
To report the clinical features of benign lymphoepithelial lesion and to further characterize recommendations for its therapy strategy.
To investigate the preventative effect of mutant kringle 5 (mK5) eye drops on corneal allograft rejection.
To assess in vitro susceptibility of the fusidic acid, vancomycin, tobramycin and ofloxacin for 8 kinds of ocular gram-positive bacteria.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) use has been associated with renal dysfunction and Fanconi syndrome. Tenofovir is taken up into renal tubules by anion transporters where high intracellular drug concentration may induce a functionally relevant depletion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We investigated if tenofovir may induce renal mtDNA depletion and respiratory chain dysfunction.
To characterize HIV-1 diversity and transmitted drug resistance in persons with access to care and treatment in Maputo, Mozambique.
To understand age-specific sexual mixing patterns of men who have sex with men in Australia, for behavioral insight, and to determine which age groups are at greatest risk of acquiring HIV in the future.
This study used artificially demineralized bovine dentin to ascertain the effect of hardness of demineralized dentin on ablation rate with the Er:YAG laser.
To evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of repeated BoNTA treatments of glabellar lines in Japanese subjects.
For an 'outsider' (a newly qualified nurse with personal experiences as a patient) to implement a new patient journey in an unrelated hospital trust, to enable an impartial and independent evaluation of the model.
Pancreaticoduodenectomy is the standard treatment for periampullary tumors. One of the major causes of morbidity after pancreaticoduodenectomy is the failure of the healing at the pancreaticoenteric anastomosis. The aim of this study is to summarize the results of a new technique which is designed to decrease the panreticoje-junostomy anastomotic leakage.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of Ranitidine and Esomeprazole on the pancreatico-biliary tree and to define their role in improving visualization quality on magnetic resonance cholangiopancreaticography images.
Prognostic factors after radical operation for middle and distal bile duct cancer are not fully understood. The aim of this study is to identify prognostic factors for patients undergoing radical operation for middle and distal bile duct cancer.
Measurement of urinary sulfated bile acid (USBA) level is a simple urine test that reflects the degree of cholestasis in newborns. The aim of this study was to clarify the clinical significances of this test for liver diseases in adults.
Patients aged 80 years and over show greater risk of complicated gallbladder diseases and associated comorbidities. The aim of the study is to evaluate the prognosis after laparoscopic or open cholecystectomy in these patients.
Advanced biliary carcinoma have poor prognosis and chemotherapy has been shown to have little impact. The aim of the present study is to clarify the effectiveness of GEM combined with CDDP and 5FU (GFP) therapy for unresectable biliary carcinoma.
Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) is a notorious iatrogenic infection with typical endoscopic features consisting of pseudomembranes (PMs). Concomitant colonic ulcers are sometimes endoscopically detected. We hypothesized that length of vancomycin (VCM) administration for treatment depends on presentation of colonic ulcer.
Tumor recurrence develops in 45-80% of patients after liver surgery for colorectal liver metastases. To assess the significance of preoperative tumor marker levels for disease free interval (DFI) and patient survival (PS) after liver surgery.
Although enteral nutrition therapy has been highlighted as maintenance therapy for Crohn's disease, few reports have investigated the impact of enteral nutrition on the health-related quality of life of Crohn's disease patients.
We aimed to assess liver fibrosis in biopsies from patients with chronic hepatitis C and relationship to different responses to interferon-beta-la.
Free radicals, in a colon, may damage DNA, make difficult DNA repair and change course of post-translational modifications of regulatory proteins, which promote tumor initiation and progression. Therefore risk of colon cancer is closely related to diet and other lifestyle factors. Dietary antioxidants, such as vitamin E, should reduce the levels of harmful oxidation products. However vitamin E is not soluble in water, which decreases its bioavailability. As O-glycosides of alpha-tocopherol are better soluble in water and penetrate to tissues easier than free alpha-tocopherol, the aim of our work was to investigate the rate of release the free tocopherol from its O-glycosides in colon cancer, in comparison to human healthy colon tissue.
Elevated oxidative status has been found in many types of cancer cells. Recent studies have shown that the enzymatic product of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) generated reactive oxygen species (ROS) within cancer cells. The aim of this study was thus to evaluate the signal transduction pathway and the role of ROS in colorectal cancer.
Cytapheresis with extra-corporeal circulation for ulcerative colitis is effective but its mechanisms are still unclear. Granulocytecolony stimulating factor (G-CSF) strongly mobilizes bone marrow-derived cells and serves as antiinflammatory factor. We investigated plasma levels of G-CSF during granulocyte and monocyte adsorptive apheresis (GCAP).
We reported a novel surgical technique, sliding functional end-to-end anastomosis (SFEEA), which abrogates the need for the transanal procedure for colorectal anastomosis. The aim of this study is to evaluate to the usefulness of SFEEA in high anterior resection as compared with double stapling technique (DST).
Extensive trials have indicated that cancer cells with high glycolytic activity exhibit decreased sensitivity to anticancer agents. Moreover, recent research has proved that a specific inhibitor of hexokinase II, which is a key glycolytic enzyme, may enhance the activity of anticancer drugs. The purpose of this study is to further investigate the effect and mechanisms of hexokinase II on chemosensitivity of colon cancer cells to 5-fluorouracil.
The usefulness of preoperative CEA in CRC remains controversial as regards its biological function, and its use in the diagnosis, prognosis, and management and follow up of CRC patients. the aim of this study was to provide a critical and updated study for the value of CEA in CRC.
The present study was designed to provide an analysis of factors for tumor vascularisation and proliferation in 37 rectal cancer patients with concurrent and recurrent liver metastasis underwent preoperative radiotherapy, surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy with emphasis on the time of presence of hepatic spread.
To prospectively investigate differences in angiogenesis between low-grade dysplasia (LGD) and hyperplastic polyps, as well as the relationship between microvessel density (MVD) as identified by histological analysis and meshed-capillary (MC) vessels visualized using magnifying narrow band imaging (NBI) colonoscopy.
Although the hemi-double stapling (HDS) technique is one of the methods of mechanically stapled anastomosis for Billroth-I (B-I) gastroduodenostomy, the development of anastomotic strictures has not been discussed adequately. Thus, we performed a retrospective study to compare the anastomotic stricture of the HDS and the hand-sutured anastomosis (HSA) technique.
It has been reported that the Z-line appearance (the ZAP grade) wascorrelated with the prevalence of intestinal metaplasia. Therefore, we prospectively investigated the clinical usefulness of ZAP classification based on the histology in making a diagnosis of non-erosive reflux disease (NERD).
The aim of the study was to compare the efficacy and safety of 5-day terlipressin treatment of bleeding esophageal varices to 10-day treatment period.
Concerning needle withdrawal bleeding, measurement of esophageal variceal pressures (VP) by direct needle puncture is indicated only when sclerotherapy is simultaneously performed. A prospective study was conducted to assess the feasibility of needle measurements of VP during endoscopic variceal ligation (EVL).
The results of laparoscopic Nissen's fundoplication (LNF) were compared in patients having typical and atypical symptoms of Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Atypical symptoms include asthma, chronic cough, non-cardiac chest pain, and ear, nose, and throat symptoms. The effectiveness of antireflux surgery in relief of these symptoms is uncertain.
This study was retrospectively undertaken to evaluate clinical utility of portal venous stent placement in the treatment of portal venous stenosis after major abdominal surgery combined with portal reconstruction.
A complex interaction of host genetic and environmental factors may be relevant in the development of Helocobacter pylori (H. pylori) related gastroduodenal diseases. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is expressed catalyzes the methylation of various endobiotic and xenobiotic substances and thus might protect DNA from oxidative damage. We aimed to clarify the effect of COMT functional polymorphism on the severity of histological gastritis in a Japanese population.
The clinical outcomes and advantages of laparoscopic surgery for Crohn's disease have not yet been recognized in general. The aim of this study was to critically assess the clinical outcomes, safety, cosmesis, quality of life (QOL) and feasibility of laparoscopic surgery for primary Crohn's disease.
Adverse reactions to thiopurines may be predisposed by thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) or inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPA) gene mutations.
Detection of HCV has been documented in extrahepatic sites such as platelets. However, its influence on antiviral therapy outcome is unknown. In this study, we investigated the relationship between the detection of HCV in platelets from a cohort of 48 chronically HCV-infected patients and response to antiviral therapy.
Recently, complementary alternative medicine is actively performed for cancer therapy. We investigated the effectiveness of supplementary food containing superfine dispersed lentinan (beta-1,3-glucan) in patients with unresectable or recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma in a multi-center study.
To evaluate the hemihepatic vascular occlusion with hanging maneuver in hepatectomy.
We preliminarily examined the characteristics of patients who underwent laparoscopic assisted hepatic resection (LAPH) to clarify its advantages and limitations of this procedure.
Diagnosis of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis in cirrhotic ascites is based on a polymorphonuclear leukocyte count of ascitic fluid equal or greater than 250/mm3 in the presence of clinical signs. There is a small number of patients with positive ascitic fluid culture whose polymorphonuclear leukocyte count is less than 250/mm3. In this study, we assessed the diagnostic value of serum high sensitivity C-reactive protein in spontaneous bacterial peritonitis with nonneutrocytic ascites.
To assess the efficacy of the Molecular Adsorbent Recirculating System MARS (GAMBRO LUNDIA AB, Europe) in patients with acute liver failure waiting for liver transplantation.
Chronic hepatitis B is associated with significantly increased risk of developing cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. It's, therefore, important to understand the incidence and risk factors associated with chronicity following acute hepatitis B.
We investigated, for the first time, the protective effect of erythropoietin (EPO) against liver ischemia-reperfusion (I-R) injury in a pig model.
Recent improvements in the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) render the discovery and treatment of lymph node (LN) metastasis increasingly important. We retrospectively evaluated the treatment outcomes of radiation therapy (RT) for LN metastases from HCC.
Phosphatidylcholine reduces chemically-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats and the growth of hepatic cancer cells. We planned to determine whether apoptosis pathways via death ligands were induced by phosphatidylcholine.
Although the efficacy and safety of pegylated-interferon (PEG-IFN) alpha-2a and PEG-IFN alpha-2b have been comparatively studied, there are few study results available in which the two PEG-IFN products were strictly compared. To compare the effects of two PEG-IFN products on blood cell profile.
Surgery remains the most reliable treatment for bleeding esophageal varices. We propose a new modified procedure as selective periesophogastric devascularization (SPD), in which paracardial spontenous collaterals were preserved and only pericardial collaterals and perforating branches were disconnected. This study aimed to evaluate the results of SPD in variceal bleeding.
This retrospective study evaluated the suitability of computed tomography (CT) to detect malignancy while following patients with branch-type IPMN, most of which are benign and may be treated with observation alone.
The operative mortality and morbidity associated with pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) has been decreasing, however, pancreatic fistula remains a major cause of a potentially fatal complication. The aim of this study was to identify risk factors, predictors and prevention for pancreatic fistula formation in a consecutive series of PD cases in a single institution.
Severe acute pancreatitis is poor prognosis. Continuous regional arterial infusion of protease inhibitors and antibiotics were developed in Japan. We evaluated whether arterial infusion both celiac artery and superior mesenteric artery for this disease would reduce mortality.
Accurate pre-operative staging in patients with pancreatic cancer is crucial for avoiding unnecessary laparotomy and for selecting patients accurately for curative resection. In this study, tumor resectability and residual tumor grading in patients evaluated by MD-CT (Multi-detector row CT) or by SD-CT (single-detector CT) were compared to determine whether more accurate imaging has a significant clinical impact on patient selection and surgical outcomes.
Local pancreatic resections can avoid the unnecessary resection of the normal pancreatic parenchyma in comparison with standard pancreatic resection. However, the incidence of pancreatic fistula after local pancreatic resection is high, and still responsible for most morbidity and mortality.
Portal and splenic venous thrombosis (PSVT) is not a rare complication of splenectomy. We report a retrospective study of PSVT after splenectomy in patients with liver cirrhosis and clarify the risk factors and discuss the necessity of preventive pharmacotherapy.
Endoscopic Resection (ER) has been performed for early gastric cancers, and metachronous gastric cancers (MGCs) were occasionally observed. Most MGCs were classified histologically as the differentiated type. However, there have been no data on the gastric and intestinal phenotypic classification of MGCs. In our previous study, Hp-infection in MG may trigger intestinalization of gastric cancers. We therefore speculate the phenotype shift in MGC lesions under Hp-chronic-infection.
Lentinan (LNT), a purified beta-glucan, is a biological and immunological modifier and has been used as an anticancer drug in combination with 5-fluorouracil for gastric cancer in Japan. In this prospective randomized study, we evaluated the effects of LNT combination with regard to quality of life (QOL) and LNT binding ratio in monocytes.
The ideal medication for treatment of acid related diseases should have a rapid onset of action to promote hemostasis. The aim of our study was to investigate the inhibitory effects on gastric acid secretion after single intravenous administrations of lansoprazole 30 mg and famotidine 20 mg.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of combination chemotherapy with epirubicin, cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil (ECF regimen), and Chloroxoquinoline in patients with metastatic gastric cancer.
To evaluate the diagnostic value of sucrose permeability test (SPT) with special reference to early gastric cancer (EGC), and to assess the changes of urinary sucrose level after treatment of gastric damage: gastric ulcer (GU) or EGC.
The aim of the present study was to develop a reproducible autogenic model-based method for collection, conservation and isolation of porcine pancreas so that transplantation of isolated pancreatic islets could be performed and postoperative normoglycemia achieved.
The aim of the study was to evaluate water peritoneal transport during a 16-hour dialysis exchange performed using icodextrin-containing dialysis fluid.
The aim of the experiment was to transplant Langerhans islets without immunosuppression. To protect the grafts against transplant rejection, semipermeable membranes could be used.
Italian performance in cancer research from 2000 to 2007 was assessed and compared to that of the other 19 wealthiest countries in the world which carry out the bulk of cancer research.
Data on kidney cancer incidence and prevalence are not available on a national and regional level. We provided estimates of the number of incident and prevalent cases of kidney and renal cell cancer in Italy overall and in various regions in 2002 and gave projections for the years 2007 and 2012.
Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in European women aged 15-44 years. The aim of this study was to estimate the direct cost of managing invasive cervical cancer in Italy.
Axillary dissection in patients positive for sentinel lymph nodes is currently under discussion in the literature, since approximately only 50% of such patients has metastases in the remaining lymph nodes. To identify patients at risk for non-sentinel lymph nodes metastases, a nomogram was developed by the Breast Service of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The aim of this study was to assess the nomogram's predictive accuracy in a population of Italian breast cancer patients in our hospital.
Rectal and urinary toxicities are the principal limiting factors in delivering a high target dose to patients affected by prostate cancer. The verification of such toxicity is an important step before starting a dose-escalation program. The present observational study reports on the acute and late rectal and urinary toxicity in relation with dose-volume parameters in 104 patients with localized prostate cancer treated with 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy.
Hadron therapy is an advanced radiotherapy technique that employs charged particle beams. Several particles (pions, oxygen, neon and helium ions) have been investigated in the past, but at present only protons and carbon ions are used in clinical practice. Hadron therapy has been used for more than 50 years, more than 50,000 patients have been treated worldwide, and many new facilities are being built. Indications are still a matter of debate. The Italian National Center for Oncological Hadron Therapy (CNAO) is under construction in Pavia and will begin to treat patients in the near future.
Evaluation of the metabolic response to radiotherapy in nonsmall cell lung cancer patients is commonly performed about three months after the end of radiotherapy. The aim of the present study was to assess with positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose changes in glucose metabolism during and after radiotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer patients.
Cervical lymph node metastases of squamous cell carcinoma from an unknown primary site constitute about 5% of the total head and neck cancer, cases. The management of these patients is still a therapeutic challenge. The aim of the present study was to analyze the prognosis in a series of patients and, in particular, the impact of different radiotherapy techniques on the prognosis.
Glioblastoma is the most common primary brain tumor in adults. The standard treatment is surgery and radiotherapy. In this study, the results of radiotherapy plus concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide are reported. In addition, the efficiency of adjuvant temozolomide is evaluated.
Laryngeal cancer treatment options include radical surgery, "organ preservation surgery", radiotherapy and chemotherapy. There is no proven evidence of a significant increase in late toxicity with adjuvant radiotherapy after conservative surgery. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the toxicity, local-regional control and overall survival of adjuvant radiotherapy after conservative surgery.
It has been appreciated for some time that the lack of detection of ovarian cancer at clinical and pathological (second-look laparotomy) evaluation is not synonymous with cure. The goal of this study was to define clinical risk factors for recurrence after complete pathological response to postoperative chemotherapy in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer.
Assessing psychosexual and body image aspects of quality of life in Turkish breast cancer patients treated by either mastectomy or breast conserving treatment (BCT).
Febrile neutropenia (FN) is a major complication of chemotherapy and is associated with substantial morbidity, mortality and costs. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of primary prophylaxis with, pegfilgrastim versus six-day filgrastim in preventing FN in Italian patients with early-stage breast cancer receiving adjuvant chemotherapy associated with a &gt; or = 20% FN risk.
Expression of GLUT-1 and transglutaminase 2 is increased in aggressive breast cancer, whereas claudin-1, which is expressed in normal tissues, is absent in such tumors. This experimental study was undertaken to establish the aggressiveness and prognosis of DMBA-induced mammary tumors in female Wistar rats based on the assessment of these markers.
Evidence-based medicine allows the best available external clinical evidence from systematic literature research to be graded in order to determine the strength of its recommendation. This guideline aims to assist physicians and health professionals in clinical decisions related to prostate cancer treatment, particularly in urology, clinical oncology and radiotherapy.
Some candidates for brachytherapy present with a previous history of prostate transurethral resection (TURP). Nonetheless, TURP generates a cavity that may lead to technical difficulties in performing brachytherapy. Such condition make a history of previous TURP a relative contra-indication for brachytherapy. The aim of this study is to evaluate the role of brachytherapy in urinary continence, in a group of patients with previous history of TURP.
To present the updated version of 2008 European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
The aim of this study was to evaluate strategies used for surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with tumoral thrombus extension in the inferior vena cava (IVC) and evaluate patient's prognosis.
We try to figure out whether early penile rahabilitation ameliorates erectile dysfunction secondary to radical prostatectomy.
Review this pathology nowadays.
The present review tries to analyze the existing information by means of a search and systematic review of articles centred on the utilization of the DHEA/S for the control of the aging symptoms.
The creation of neo utero-sacral neoligaments, decribed by Petros, evolved into a new procedure allowing for the anatomical reconstruction of the three levels proposed by DeLancey. The aim of this study is evaluate the anatomical and functional outcomes of this minimally invasive procedure.
In order to evaluate the efficacy of different surgical techniques for the correction of traumatic lesions of the urethra, we performed a retrospective study in those patients, and evaluated different complications such as postsurgical stenosis of the urethra, incontinence and impotence (erectile dysfunction).
In the last years it has spread minimally invasive therapeutic for the treatment of pyeloureteral junction obstruction in children. Some of them have got poor outcomes in 4-year-old minor children. We show our experience in the retrograde dilatation with balloon of high pressure in infants.
Report of a case of leukemic infiltration of the prostate as an incidental CT finding.
To compare the efficacy and safety of fentanyl and remifentanil in the prevention of hemodynamic responses to direct laryngoscopy and orotracheal intubation, and to compare the effects of these techniques on peripheral blood oxyhemoglobin saturation in normotensive women undergoing scheduled gynecologic surgery.
Patients being treated with spinal cord stimulation for chronic pain complain of variable paresthesias, particularly in relation to changes in posture. Such changes affect the great majority of patients with implantable pulse generators, requiring them to use the external programmer for avoidance of painful paresthesias or even to disconnect the generator, leading to loss of pain relief. The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between the pulse charge needed for stimulation and the patient's different postures.
Partial or complete duplication of the renal tract may be an incidental finding or may be associated with significant pathology. Accurate assessment is not always easy. This retrospective review was undertaken to determine whether intravenous urography (IVU) in combination with a DMSA renal scan provides significant additional information.
To present mortality caused by injury, poisoning and other consequences of external causes (S00-T98, ICD-10) in the Split-Dalmatia County population during the 2001-2005 period.
To explore LOC of diabetes mellitus type 2 (DMT2) patients, also in relation to patient' socio-demographic characteristics (sex, education, working status, and family status), context (place of birth, experience with chronic diseases in family, economic status), social support and quality of life.
The aim of the study was to follow and analyze patient referrals from general practice (GP) to diagnostic procedures and specialist consultations. Data on the kinds of diagnostic procedures, specialist consultations and requests for referrals were collected. Specific aim was to assess the contribution of referring for definitive diagnosis and to compare the frequency and contribution of first and repeat consultations.
The aim of the study was to present our preliminary results in the use of VCE during a period of one year and five months. We also report indications and contraindications for VCE, and patient preparation.
The aim of the study was to investigate outpatient utilization of hypolipemics in the City of Zagreb during the 2001-2006 period and to assess the quality of prescribing these drugs in primary health care.
To determine whether angled gantry acquisition might be used to image the heart with a shorter scan length and reduced breast exposure during coronary computed tomography angiography.
Diffraction-enhanced imaging (DEI) is a new x-ray imaging modality that differs from conventional radiography in its use of three physical mechanisms to generate contrast. DEI is able to generate contrast from x-ray absorption, refraction, and ultra-small-angle scatter rejection (extinction) to produce high-contrast images with a much lower radiation dose compared to conventional radiography.
The aim of this study was to assess potential quality assurance (QA) issues in the diagnosis and characterization of adnexal masses on pelvic computed tomographic (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies.
The purpose of this article is to review the spectrum of computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of fat containing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), including serial contrast-enhanced imaging.
We sought to derive normative reference values for the thoracic great vessels using multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) in a healthy normotensive non-obese population free of cardiovascular disease.
Most studies of computer-aided detection (CAD) for pulmonary nodules have focused on solid nodule detection. The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of a commercially available CAD system in the detection of pulmonary nodules with or without ground-glass opacity (GGO) using 64-detector-row computed tomography compared to visual interpretation.
To evaluate and compare the accuracy of cross-sectional imaging using an intravascular antenna in the context of vascular morphological measurements performed during a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided vascular intervention.
The authors hypothesized that the current practice of radiology produces oculomotor fatigue that reduces diagnostic accuracy.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various tube currents on the accuracy of volumetric measurements of ground-glass opacity (GGO) nodules using a chest phantom.
To evaluate the effect of automatic tube current modulation on radiation dose and image quality for low tube voltage computed tomography (CT) angiography.
A phantom set was devised to evaluate capability of independent component analysis (ICA) as an image filter for magnetic resonance (MR) images to segregate components.
Previous studies showed it was possible to employ sonographic contrast agent for identification of the sentinel lymph nodes (SLNs). This study is to investigate the usefulness of SonoVue (a sonographic contrast agent) and gray-scale contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEUS) for detecting the SLNs in a metastatic breast cancer model.
The purposes of the present study were to investigate the impact of viewing size on soft-copy diagnosis for detecting abnormalities on digital chest radiographs and to verify the usefulness of reduced digital chest radiography.
Time devoted to internal moonlighting is constrained by various components of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) duty hour regulations. Hours spent in external moonlighting, however, are not necessarily tabulated in accordance with ACGME requirements. This study sought to gain a better understanding of the extent of both internal and external moonlighting.
In conventional projection radiography, cartilage and other soft tissues do not produce enough radiographic contrast to be distinguishable from each other. Diffraction-enhanced imaging (DEI) uses a monochromatic x-ray beam and a silicon crystal analyzer to produce images in which attenuation contrast is greatly enhanced and x-ray refraction at tissue boundaries can be detected. The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of conventional x-ray tube-based DEI for the detection of soft tissues in experimental samples.
To review the clinical features and current knowledge on the treatment of psychiatric symptoms and disorders in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
To analyze clinical and demographic data of childhood-onset (12 years and younger) schizophrenia patients collected for a genetic study in schizophrenia, undertaken nationally in South Africa, using multiple parameters.
The Yoruba are an ethnic group in southern Nigeria. It is said that their world view centers around a continuous battle between forces of good and evil. Adverse events such as illness are due to the malevolence of enemies, using metaphysical means. Remedy often involves corrective metaphysical intervention, either exclusively or in addition to other methods, such as 'western Medicine'. This 'rule' is said to fit mental illness more than any other type of illness, although there is a lack of empirical data on the subject. This study is aimed at identifying elements of a Yoruba world view, and factors relevant to the perception and treatment of psychotic illness.
Traditional health practice was recently mainstreamed in South Africa by the promulgation of the Traditional Health Practitioners Act, No. 35 of 2004. Due to the extent of integration of mental health in the legal definition of traditional health practice, promulgation of this Act also has significant implications for mental health care delivery. This paper explored the documented interface of traditional health practice with mental health care in South Africa over the past almost 50 years.
To determine whether the angiotensin-receptor blocker candesartan compared with placebo affects microalbuminuria incidence or rate of change in albuminuria in type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
To examine the long-term renal effects of telmisartan versus placebo in adults at high vascular risk.
To examine the frequency with which computed tomography (CT)-documented dilations of the abdominal aorta are accompanied by evidence in the electronic medical record (EMR) that a clinician recognized the abnormality.
To assess the relationship among adverse primary care work conditions, adverse physician reactions (stress, burnout, and intent to leave), and patient care.
To update the 1996 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force evidence review on benefits and harms of screening for impaired visual acuity in primary care settings in adults age 65 years or older.
To evaluate the efficacy of a structured behavioral Internet intervention for adults with insomnia.
To determine whether multivariate neuroanatomical pattern classification facilitates identification of individuals in different at-risk mental states (ARMS) of psychosis and enables the prediction of disease transition at the individual level.
To examine whether persons with severe mental disorder, defined as persons admitted to a psychiatric hospital with bipolar affective disorder, schizoaffective disorder, or schizophrenia, are in contact with hospitals and undergoing invasive procedures for heart disease to the same degree as the nonpsychiatric general population, and to determine whether they have higher mortality rates of heart disease.
To test the hypotheses that, compared with placebo, concomitant treatment with nortriptline or venlafaxine during the ECT course enhances short-term efficacy without a meaningful effect on adverse effects and reduces the rate of post-ECT relapse, and to test the hypotheses that high-dose, right-sided, unilateral ECT is equivalent in efficacy to moderate-dosage bilateral ECT and retains advantages with respect to cognitive adverse effects.
To test the hypothesis that family history is associated with 4 clinical indexes of disorder (recurrence, impairment, service use, and age at onset) in relation to 4 psychiatric disorders (major depressive episode, anxiety disorder, alcohol dependence, and drug dependence).
To systematically review family studies of probands with schizophrenia and BD and to determine whether these disorders coaggregate in families.
To determine the efficacy and tolerability of N-acetylcysteine in adults with trichotillomania.
To establish which childhood and adolescent psychiatric disorders predict particular young adult disorders when accounting for comorbidities, disaggregating similar disorders, and examining childhood and adolescent predictors separately.
To identify susceptibility genes for alcohol dependence through a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and a follow-up study in a population of German male inpatients with an early age at onset.
To study time-space (cohort-country) variation in gender differences in lifetime DSM-IV mental disorders across cohorts in 15 countries in the World Health Organization World Mental Health Survey Initiative and to determine if this variation is significantly related to time-space variation in female gender role traditionality as measured by aggregate patterns of female education, employment, marital timing, and use of birth control.
To evaluate the effectiveness of a xylitol pediatric topical oral syrup to reduce the incidence of dental caries among very young children and to evaluate the effect of xylitol in reducing acute otitis media in a subsequent study.
To quantify the effect of socioeconomic status (SES) on health outcomes during the first year after newborn discharge among infants with complex chronic conditions (CCCs) insured through a universal health plan.
To assess the risk of birth asphyxia associated with maternal and newborn size.
To evaluate the effects of Project ALERT on adolescents' lifetime and 30-day use of cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, and inhalants.
To examine how advergames, which are online computer games developed to market a product, affect consumption of healthier and less healthy snacks by low-income African American children.
To examine the joint effects of movie smoking exposure and team sports participation on established smoking.
To measure associations among depression, sexual risk behaviors, and sexually transmitted infection (STI) among white and black youth in the United States.
To investigate the concept of hope for families and pediatric health care professionals during a child's serious illness.
To examine the differences and trends in pediatric antireflux procedures (ARPs) across individual pediatric hospitals over time.
To ascertain the issues all general practice educators need to understand when educating GP registrars to learn about research.
To assess the impairment in daily living activities in older people with age related changes in white matter according to the severity of these changes.
Several stressors such as cold water immersion, hyperoxic exposure and decompression-induced circulating bubbles can alter arterial circulation after a dive. The aim of this study was to investigate the arterial modifications induced by a specific diving training including repeated hyperbaric exposures and physical training.
Increased blood lactate concentration has been suggested as a primary stimulus for the exercise-induced growth hormone response (EIGR). Patients with McArdle disease are unable to produce lactate in response to exercise and thus offer a unique model to assess the role of lactate in the EIGR. Accordingly, McArdle's patients were exercised to test the hypothesis that lactate is a major stimulus of the EIGR.
To examine how different safety rope protocols impact on subjective anxiety and self-confidence levels and plasma cortisol concentrations and the relationship between subjective states and cortisol during rock climbing.
To analyse injuries and musculoskeletal complaints in referees and assistant referees selected for the 2006 FIFA World Cup.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the knee joint dynamics during a forward lunge could be modulated by experimentally induced vastus medialis pain in healthy subjects.
To appraise existing evidence for prolotherapy, polidocanol, autologous whole blood and platelet-rich plasma injection therapies for lateral epicondylosis (LE).
Sequence variation within the COL5A1 and TNC genes are known to associate with Achilles tendinopathy. The primary aim of this case-control genetic association study was to investigate whether variants within the matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) gene also contributed to both Achilles tendinopathy and Achilles tendon rupture in a Caucasian population. A secondary aim was to establish whether variants within the MMP3 gene interacted with the COL5A1 rs12722 variant to raise risk of these pathologies.
To compare versions 8 and 10 of the Orchard Sports Injury Classification System (OSICS) to determine whether the revised version of OSICS has improved its use in a sports medicine setting, and to assess the inter-rater reliability of OSICS-10.
To document the effects of exercise on symptom reporting in healthy, uninjured, male and female amateur athletes.
To study the incidence and nature of injuries at European Championships, to compare training and match injury characteristics and to study differences in injury incidence between tournaments.
To examine how change in level of physical activity after middle age influences mortality and to compare it with the effect of smoking cessation.
To investigate associations between objectively measured physical activity (PA) and myopia in children.
To assess the systemic and pulmonary hemodynamic responses to maximum voluntary contraction of the lower extremity muscles (MVC-LEM) with persistent physiologic breathing, the Valsalva maneuver, and the combination of Valsalva with MVC-LEM.
This study was designed to investigate the clinical and angiographic features and procedural outcomes of small-vessel stenting in a real-world experience during the transition era between drug-eluting stents (DES) and bare-metal stents (BMS).
The study aimed to compare the clinical picture and treatment differences in elderly patients (aged 75 years or older) and younger patients (aged below 75 years).
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term outcomes after implantation of the SES in LMCA.
Administration of intracoronary nicardipine--a calcium channel blocker will reduce cardiac enzyme levels in patients undergoing elective PCI.
Upstream use of high-dose tirofiban could reduce myocardial infarct size, using analysis of contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CE-MRI).
MetS increases mortality in HF.
Despite the decreasing incidence of peritonitis among peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients over time, its occurrence is still associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Determining factors that are associated with PD peritonitis may facilitate the identification of patients who are at risk.
Anemia and hemoglobin (Hb) variability are associated with mortality in hemodialysis patients who are on erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA). Our aim was to describe the degree of Hb variability present in nondialysis patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), including those who were not receiving ESA, and to investigate the association between Hb variability and mortality.
Increasing demand for live-donor kidneys has encouraged the use of obese donors despite the absence of long-term outcome data and evidence that obesity can adversely affect renal function. We wished to determine whether obesity increased the risk for renal dysfunction and other medical comorbidities in donors several years after donation.
Cyst infection is a complex diagnostic and therapeutic issue in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD); however, published data regarding the diagnosis and the management of cyst infections in patients with ADPKD are sparse.
Long-term outcome of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) correlates with adequacy of predialysis care. This is best provided in a multidisciplinary clinic that integrates the services of a nephrologist with other staff. There is limited data about such clinics in children. The Children's Hospital of Michigan established a Chronic Renal Insufficiency (CRI) clinic in 2002 to provide comprehensive care to children with CKD. These children receive care from a nephrologist, nurse clinician, transplant coordinator, dietician, social worker, and psychologist. The objective of the study was to compare outcome variables between patients from the CRI clinic and a general nephrology clinic.
Fast peritoneal membrane transport status may be due to inflammation or increased peritoneal membrane surface area. We evaluated the ability of peritoneal protein clearance (Pcl) to distinguish fast peritoneal membrane transport status as a consequence of peritoneal membrane inflammation and assess its impact on patient survival.
Infusion of intravenous antibiotics after hemodialysis (HD) may delay initiation of treatment for the next HD shift. Intradialytic administration of drugs such as vancomycin during the final hour of HD obviates these delays. Daptomycin has potent activity against Gram-positive bacteria, but the manufacturer recommends that the dose be infused after HD ends. This study determined the pharmacokinetics of intradialytically dosed daptomycin in patients with ESRD.
Waiting times to deceased-donor transplantation (DDTx) have significantly increased in the past decade. This trend particularly affects older candidates given a high mortality rate on dialysis.
The study aim was to establish the incidence and characterize all encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis (EPS) cases in patients treated by peritoneal dialysis (PD).
Renal transplant recipients experience premature cardiovascular disease and death. The association of inflammation, all-cause mortality, and cardiovascular events in renal transplant recipients has not been examined in a large prospective controlled trial.
Billing claims are increasingly examined beyond administrative functions as outcomes measures in observational research. Few studies have described the performance of billing claims as surrogate measures of clinical events among kidney transplant recipients.
The peritoneal equilibration test (PET) was developed some 25 yr ago and has been used to help prescribe peritoneal dialysis. However, PET is affected by several factors, including diabetes and inflammation. It was speculated that extracellular fluid overload would increase PET ultrafiltration volumes, and therefore the usefulness of the PET in routine clinical practice was audited.
The relationship of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) to long-term adverse events (AEs) is controversial. Although an association with AEs has been previously reported, it is unclear whether CIN is causally related to these AEs.
This study assessed the prevalence of CTOs among patients with stable angina pectoris and its impact on therapeutic strategies.
We compared early results of homograft aortic root replacement (ARR) in native (NVE) and prosthetic (PVE) aortic valve endocarditis in order to identify predictors for early mortality (&lt;30 days).
To describe baseline sociodemographic, clinical, and treatment characteristics associated with worsened depression during a trial of citalopram. DESIGN, PARTICIPANTS, AND SETTINGS: Open-label clinical trial of 2,876 adult outpatients seen in 18 primary and 23 psychiatric-care settings.
This study was designed to evaluate the impact of a teleassistance system on the metabolic control of type 2 diabetes patients.
Colorectal cancers develop through various mechanisms such as chromosomal instability, DNA mismatch repair deficiency (microsatellite instability), and epigenetic DNA promoter methylation (CpG island methylator phenotype). This study evaluated the disparity in neoplastic changes between colon and rectal cancers.
This study was designed to assess the impact of social deprivation on rates of abdominoperineal excision of the rectum in the United Kingdom.
This study was designed to evaluate the role of access to care and postsurgical recovery on delays in adjuvant chemotherapy for rectal cancer.
Intersphincteric resection has been performed as an alternative to abdominoperineal resection for low rectal cancer. The purpose of this study was to assess the long-term results after intersphincteric resection in terms of the morbidity, oncologic safety, and defecatory function.
Diverticular-associated colitis significantly overlaps clinically with primary inflammatory bowel disease. However, the clinical and the pathologic features of diverticular-associated colitis suggest that it is a distinct clinical entity.
This study was designed to assess whether preoperative, short-term, intravenously administered high doses of methylprednisolone (30 mg/kg 90 minutes before surgery) influence local and systemic biohumoral responses in patients undergoing laparoscopic or open resection of colon cancer.
This study aimed to report at ten years on the results of the same cohort that had been studied at five years who had undergone an anal sphincter repair for fecal incontinence.
The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of overlapping anal sphincter repair for fecal incontinence on overall pelvic organ function.
NASHA Dx gel has been used extensively for treatments in the field of urology. This study was performed to evaluate NASHA Dx gel as an injectable anal canal implant for the treatment of fecal incontinence.
Vascular invasion is an adverse prognostic factor in colorectal cancer and often is considered an indication for systemic adjuvant therapy. The aim of this study was to develop a predictive model of vascular invasion in a large cohort of colon cancers with use of tumor-related features and immunohistochemical analysis of protein markers.
The size and contents of the pelvis differ between the genders, and this may affect mesorectal size and shape. The aim of this prospective pilot study was to examine radiologically the applied anatomy of the mesorectum.
This study aimed to determine the prevalence of macroscopic anal lesions and associated factors in HIV-infected outpatients during the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy.
Carcinoembriogenic antigen (CEA) is the most frequently used tumor marker in rectal cancer. A decrease in carcinoembriogenic antigen after radical surgery is associated with survival in these patients. Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy may lead to significant primary tumor downstaging, including complete tumor regression in selected patients. Therefore, we hypothesized that a decrease in CEA after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy could reflect tumor response to chemoradiotherapy, affecting final disease stage and ultimately survival.
This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cetuximab plus irinotecan-based therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer refractory to irinotecan and oxaliplatin. In addition, discrepancies in the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor were examined by immunohistochemistry using two different antibodies.
Pancreatic metastases from colorectal cancer are very rare, and the possible benefit of surgical treatment is not clearly defined. This study was designed to evaluate the outcome of patients undergoing pancreatic resection for metastatic colorectal cancer to the pancreas.
This study was designed to compare the diagnostic yield of white light colonoscopy, chromoendoscopy, narrow-band imaging, and autofluorescence imaging in the detection of diminutive lesions.
Platelet-derived growth factor-BB plays a role in the development of vascular and lymphatic vessels in tumors. In this study plasma levels of platelet-derived growth factor-BB were assessed preoperatively in patients with adenomas and colorectal cancer to determine whether platelet-derived growth factor-BB is a useful marker or prognostic indicator.
Excision followed by natal cleft depth reduction should be performed, with no leftover midline scar tissue, to prevent recurrence of pilonidal sinus, which is the main problem in the treatment of this disease. We investigated the potential advantages of this advancing flap technique, which we developed.
Pelvic sepsis is a serious complication after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis that may lead to pouch failure or poor function. Although a temporary loop ileostomy may be created at the time of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis to prevent or minimize the consequences of an anastomotic leak, research has suggested that an ileostomy can be safely omitted in selected patients. The purpose of this study was to examine the use of proximal diversion by colorectal surgeons at the time of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis.
Hypercoagulability is a commonly described complication in patients with Cushing's syndrome. Recent clinical studies have indicated various abnormalities of coagulation and fibrinolysis parameters which may be related to that phenomenon. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms underlying the hypercoagulable state in patients with Cushing's syndrome.
Several approaches to merging residency training and medical school education have been attempted over the past 20 years. This study describes and evaluates an integrated family medicine residency programa 4-year program that overlaps with the final year of medical school.
Elder abuse is a serious issue, affecting up to 10% of community-dwelling older adults. This project sought to understand if elder abuse under-reporting was related to physician specialty and residency training.
While oral health is an important topic for medical education, it is often not covered in medical school. The Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) has recently set guidelines for oral health training in medical education. Our objective was to demonstrate how a mandatory interclerkship (half-day workshops taught between third-year clerkships) that covers pediatric, urgent care, examination skills, and prevention topics in oral health can lead to an increase in knowledge for medical students.
This study's objective was to assess the relationship of empathy in medical office visits to subsequent outcomes of the common cold.
The study's objectives were to explore Deliver Primary Healthcare Information (DELPHI) project participants' experiences, ideas, and perspectives regarding the adoption of electronic medical records (EMRs) into their primary health care practices and to examine perceived barriers and facilitators to EMR adoption.
The purpose of this study is to examine the inter-observer reliability of the pelvic organ prolapse quantification (POP-Q) system in left lateral position.
This study aimed to describe the self-perceived natural history of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) in women seeking care.
Multichannel urodynamic testing is considered to be the gold standard for evaluation of lower urinary tracts symptoms in women. The objective of this study was to assess the level of pain associated with this test.
The levator ani muscle is generally thought to play a role in urinary continence, with incontinence assumed to be due to abnormal muscle function or morphology. This study examined whether avulsion of the puborectalis muscle is associated with symptoms or signs of bladder dysfunction.
The purpose of the study was to investigate the relationship of diabetes mellitus and urinary incontinence in adult women.
Pregnancy is a risk factor for urinary tract infection (UTI), and it has been shown that frequent urine voiding was a protecting factor against UTI for nonpregnant female cleanroom workers. We conducted a study to evaluate whether these findings also apply to pregnant women.
Prospective studies up to 1 year after repair of obstetric anal sphincter injuries (OASIS) report anal incontinence in 33% of women and up to 92% have a sonographic sphincter defect. The aim of this study is to determine the outcome of repair by doctors who have undergone structured training using a standardized protocol.
To establish whether a nurse-led urogynecology triage clinic (UTC) is effective in terms of patient journey (from primary referral to first hospital contact until discharge), diagnosis, management, and outcomes.
Vaginal noise (VN) is a symptom of pelvic floor (PF) dysfunction and has been described in a few studies. No other risk factors have been described besides parity and pelvic organ prolapse (POP). Underlying mechanisms of VN are unclear. Aims of this study were to describe prevalence, bother and relation between VN and PF (muscle)(dys)function.
This study aimed to document intraoperative and postoperative complications associated with the use of transvaginal polypropylene mesh in the repair of pelvic organ prolapse (POP).
The objective of this study is to estimate efficacy of prophylactic antibiotics in UTI prevention during CISC for postoperative voiding dysfunction after prolapse/incontinence surgery.
In this study, we define the histopathological features of female urethral diverticula and attempt to elucidate its pathogenesis and etiology.
This study aims to analyze comparatively the efficacy and safety of synthetic transobturatory and aponeurotic retropubic slings, in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) in women.
The purpose of this study is to compare vaginal caldesmon expression in women with and without anterior vaginal wall prolapse.
To develop and evaluate the short-term impact of a clinical indicator set for general medicine.
This study aimed to compare the effects 0.5% and 1% sodium, amine and stannous fluoride at different pH on enamel erosion in vitro.
The aim of this study is to illustrate the graded proper properties of enamel from the outer (near occlusal surface) to the inner region (near enamel-dentine junction) in a cross-sectioned surface and discuss how natural design achieve the graded functions.
This study evaluated the effects of specular component mode of specular component excluded (SCE) and specular component included (SCI) on color changes of different filler type resin composites after aging of 1 week and 1 year.
Characterize the ultramorphology and secondary caries inhibition potential of different dentin adhesive systems in order to find a satisfactory explanation resist to recurrent caries.
The objectives of this work were to study the spatially resolved extent of photopolymerization and the final volumetric contraction of the self-etching adhesive Xeno IV (Dentsply/Caulk, Milford, DE, USA) in association with the self-curing agent Aurora (Dentsply/Caulk, Milford, DE, USA), using (1)H Stray-Field magnetic resonance imaging ((1)H STRAFI-MRI).
To test marginal and internal adaptation of five different adhesive composite core systems under load.
Adhesive luting of indirect restorations can be carried out employing dual- or light-curing materials. This in vitro study evaluated the degree of conversion (DC) of the materials employed in this procedure, seeking how the combination of time and power of curing applied during polymerisation, as well as the temperature of the light-curing composite, influenced the DC.
Midterm-evaluation of a 5-year prospective clinical splitmouth-investigation on survival rate and long-term behavior of all-ceramic partial coverage restorations (PCRs) on molars. Pressed ceramic and CAD/CAM fabricated PCRs were compared.
To compare, by means of the push-out test, the interfacial strength of two dual resin cements and one light-curing cement when used in translucent fiber post cementation.
Although percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage has previously been recommended as a primary preoperative step, endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (ENBD) is prevalent as an alternative procedure. Few reports assess the efficacy and safety of ENBD in a substantial patient cohort.
The accurate preoperative evaluation of liver fibrosis stage is important in determining surgical procedures. Although percutaneous liver biopsy is the gold standard, it may cause undesirable complications, such as bleeding. This study aimed to evaluate the usefulness of real-time tissue elastography for the preoperative assessment of liver fibrosis stage.
One-stage resection of primary colon cancer and synchronous liver metastases is considered an effective strategy of cure. A laparoscopic approach may represent a safe and advantageous choice for selected patients with the aim of improving the early outcome.
Despite decades of research and clinical trials, a specific therapeutic treatment for acute pancreatitis (AP) has yet to be developed. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of erythropoietin on the severity of taurocolic acid-induced acute necrotizing pancreatitis.
We report the long-term outcome of ABO-incompatible living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) performed in our hospital.
Locoregional recurrence following resection of hilar biliary cancers could be caused by the microscopic dissemination of cancer cells during dissection of the portal vein from the involved bile duct at the hilar region. This retrospective study assessed the feasibility and safety of a new procedure consisting of right-sided hepatectomy, caudate lobectomy, and bile duct resection combined with routine resection of the portal bifurcation to enable no-touch resection of hilar malignancies.
We aimed to clarify the association between the presence of micrometastases around liver metastases from gastric cancer and the results of hepatic resection. In addition, we investigated the influence of E-cadherin and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-7 expression on the development of micrometastases.
Intestinal anastomotic healing is a complex procedure in which several mediators and cytokines play roles. Calcitonin gene-related peptide is an important neuropeptide in inflammation. In this study we aimed to investigate the effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide on healing of intestinal anastomosis in rats with obstructive jaundice.
By the time undifferentiated carcinoma is detected, it has formed a large mass, and it is reportedly difficult to pathologically observe its relationship with the pancreatic duct. In this study, we examined the pancreatic ducts of seven patients of surgical samples, and pathomorphologically investigated the relationship between the adenocarcinomatous and sarcomatous components and the pattern of tumor extension. In addition, we evaluated the usefulness of pancreatic juice cytology by comparison with the findings of the main pancreatic duct (MPD).
Since it is well known that endothelial cells may be important targets during rejection after living-donor liver transplantation, in this study we investigated liver sinusoidal endothelial cell (SEC) damage during rejection by focusing on thrombomodulin (TM) and hyaluronic acid (HA) as plasma markers of SEC damage. We also examined tissue factor (TF) expression in SECs, because damage to endothelial cells leads to immediate activation of the coagulation system, with the damage being triggered mainly by TF.
To examine the survival of patients with spontaneous ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma treated with transarterial embolization (TAE).
In major hepatectomies, postoperative increases in central venous pressure (CVP) may cause suture failure and massive bleeding. The aim of our study is to test the application of an intraoperative maneuver to reduce the risk of postoperative bleeding.
In 2007, the First Annual Meeting of the Japanese Endoscopic Liver Surgery Study Group was convened. We report the results of a questionnaire survey conducted by this study group that attempted to assess the current status and safety of endoscopic liver surgery.
This study sought to assess whether longitudinal rotation (LR) affects myocardial systolic velocity profiles and to compare velocity-based measures of dyssynchrony with LR for predicting cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) response.
This study sought to assess the impact of valvuloarterial impedance on left ventricular (LV) myocardial systolic function in asymptomatic aortic valve stenosis (AS).
We assessed the rate of cardiac events after detection or exclusion of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) by coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA).
This study sought to determine whether low-dose, prospective electrocardiogram (ECG)-gated delayed contrast-enhanced multidetector computed tomography (DCE-MDCT) can accurately delineate the extent of myocardial infarction (MI) compared with retrospective ECG-gated DCE-MDCT.
The purpose of this study was to determine the role of adenosine stress cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) for risk stratification in patients with coronary artery stenoses of intermediate angiographic severity.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the feasibility and diagnostic performance of the combination of adenosine stress perfusion and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) in patients after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG).
The purpose of this study was to analyze the impact of myocardial salvage on cardiac autonomic function in patients undergoing mechanical reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction (MI).
We used virtual histology-intravascular ultrasound (VH-IVUS) to study the relationship between pre-percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) coronary plaque characteristics and post-PCI cardiac troponin I (cTnI) elevation.
This study sought to evaluate the in vivo frequency and distribution of high-risk plaques (i.e., necrotic core rich) at bifurcations using a combined plaque assessment with intravascular ultrasound-virtual histology (IVUS-VH) and optical coherence tomography (OCT).
To compare syndecan-1 and tenascin immunoexpression in benign and malignant cystic pancreatic tumors.
To retrospectively evaluate the prevalence of type III anomalous pancreaticobiliary junction revealed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) examinations carried out between 1985 and 2005.
To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of epidemiologic studies on the association between alcohol consumption and the risk of pancreatitis.
This study examined the effects of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection state and immunologic capability in both the recipients and donors of allogenic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) on changes in HBV serologic markers in recipients.
Considering the incidence of prevailing hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotypes in neighboring nations, the predominance of genotype C in Korea is exceptional and needs to be confirmed by nationwide investigation.
Spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a rare but life-threatening complication. Although the prevalence rate and mortality of HCC has been reportedly high in Korea, studies on ruptured HCC are limited. The aim of this study was to determine the clinical characteristics and prognostic factors of ruptured HCC.
Hepatic involvement is frequently observed in patients with miliary tuberculosis, but primary hepatic tuberculosis with no clinical extrahepatic manifestations of tuberculosis is uncommon. With the ever-increasing number of immunocompromised patients, it is expected that hepatic tuberculosis will occur more frequently. The aim of the present study was to establish the clinical manifestations and course of the disease.
The aim of this study was to establish the characteristics of children with hepatitis B e antigens (HBeAg) positive chronic hepatitis B who were cleared of hepatitis B surface antigens (HBsAg) as a result of lamivudine treatment.
Clevudine is an effective antiviral nucleoside analogue, but there are few data regarding its long-term effects, resistance, and safety. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term clinical efficacy of clevudine over a 1-year treatment period in nucleos(t)ide-naive and lamivudine-experienced chronic hepatitis B patients.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSC) are known to synthesise excess matrix that characterises liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. Activated HSC express the matrix-degrading matrix metalloproteinase enzymes (MMPs) and their tissue inhibitors (TIMPs). During spontaneous recovery from experimental liver fibrosis, the expression of TIMP-1 declines and hepatic collagenolytic activity increases. This is accompanied by HSC apoptosis. In this study, we examine a potential mechanism whereby MMP activity might induce HSC apoptosis by cleaving N-cadherin at the cell surface.
To investigate the outcome and factors associated with treatment failure in these groups.
To clarify the pathogenesis of hyperbiliverdinaemia in an extended case report.
To evaluate prevalence of DHS in an autopsy series of diabetic patients.
In this study, we first assessed the association of GPC3 expression with the macrophage population in liver tissues from 30 HCC patients using immunohistochemistry.
The association between mixed cryogloblinaemia and chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has been established. However, the factors underlying its great geographical heterogeneity of prevalence have not yet been identified. Concomitant HCV and Schistosoma mansoni infections are common in Egypt. Chronic helminthic infections have been found to decrease the incidence and manifestations of immune-related diseases. To date, no study has focused on the influence of S. mansoni coinfection on the risk of cryoglobulinaemia in hepatitis C patients.
Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is frequently associated with autoimmune diseases, including thyroid disease, although it is uncertain that this association is higher than in other liver diseases.
The aims of the studies were to evaluate (i) the effect of ET-1 on cholangiocarcinoma growth in Mz-ChA-1 cells and nude mice and (ii) whether ET-1 regulation of cholangiocarcinoma growth is associated with changes in the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), VEGF-C, VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) and VEGFR-3.
Urinary trypsin inhibitor (UTI) is an innate anti-inflammatory regulator. It can block the release of inflammatory factors, prevent the cascade reaction of cytokines and inhibit excessive activation of leukocytes. Liver regeneration (LR) is a dynamic molecular phenomenon without inflammation. Many cytokines, including tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), have been implicated in regulating LR. However, the role of UTI in LR is totally unknown. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of UTI in LR using genetically UTI-deficient mice.
To assess impact of pretransplant hyponatraemia on post-transplant outcomes.
In this study we investigated the association between angiotensin II type 1 receptor gene polymorphism (ATGR1) and NAFLD.
During the development of liver fibrosis, mediators are produced that stimulate cells in the liver to differentiate into myofibroblasts and to produce collagen. Recent studies demonstrated that the transcription factor, hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), is critical for upregulation of profibrotic mediators, such as platelet-derived growth factor-A (PDGF-A), PDGF-B and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in the liver, during the development of fibrosis. What remains unknown is the cell type-specific regulation of these genes by HIF-1alpha in liver cell types. Accordingly, the hypothesis was tested that HIF-1alpha is activated in hypoxic hepatocytes and regulates the production of profibrotic mediators by these cells.
The transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is technically divided into TIPS through the left branch of the portal vein (TIPS-LBPV) and TIPS through the right branch of the portal vein (TIPS-RBPV). In order to compare their advantages and disadvantages, this randomized, controlled trial was designed to investigate their outcomes in advanced cirrhotic patients.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome. However, its therapeutic strategy has not been established. Recently, an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker, telmisartan (Tel), has received a great deal of attention as a therapeutic tool for metabolic syndrome. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and mechanisms of Tel on a murine NASH model.
To evaluate the potential protective role of Smad3 deficiency in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) in Smad3 null mice.
This study was performed to examine whether simultaneous administration of low-dose adenovirus encoding HGF and VEGF genes in dogs will stimulate liver proliferation but without inducing liver toxicity or systemic elevation of HGF and VEGF levels.
To examine the response of the Victorian State Trauma System to the February 2009 bushfires.
To understand the current organisation of services for people with transient ischaemic attack (TIA) and the processes of assessment and management across Australian hospitals.
To evaluate a non-invasive molecular test using free circulating fetal DNA in maternal plasma to predict the fetal RHD type.
To assess the safety and efficacy of conivaptan for the treatment of euvolemic hyponatremia in the neurocritical care unit.
To assess whether monitoring sedation status using bispectral index (BIS) as an adjunct to clinical evaluation was associated with a reduction in the total amount of sedative drug used in a 12 h period.
The objectives of this study are to determine the incidence of symptomatic venous thromboembolism (VTE) in neurosurgery intensive care unit (NSICU) patients with spontaneous or traumatic intracranial hemorrhage and to identify the common VTE risk factors by injury type.
Studies suggest that stroke patients with thrombus in a major cerebral vessel respond less favorably to intravenous (IV) thrombolysis. The purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of a protocol comparing IV versus intra-arterial (IA) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) in an acute ischemic stroke with major vessel occlusion.
To identify prognostic factors for vasospasm, hydrocephalus, and clinical outcomes in patients with angiographically negative, non-traumatic, diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (d-SAH).
To update the state of the science on sleep-wake disturbances in adult patients with cancer, focusing on insomnia in the areas of prevalence, mechanisms and models, measurement, interventions, and implications for practice, health policy, education, and research.
To define help seeking and identify a theoretical framework to explain the help-seeking process of patients with self-discovered cancer symptoms.
To assess the degree to which postsurgical adjustment in patients with breast cancer and their partners depends on the nature of the patient-partner dyad relationship.
To determine whether dry versus moist heat application to the upper extremity improves IV insertion rates.
To examine the symptom cluster of fatigue, pain, anxiety, and depression and its effect on the quality of life (QOL) of women receiving chemotherapy or radiotherapy for breast cancer.
To determine whether a nurse-led educational intervention decreased the perception of fatigue in patients diagnosed with gastrointestinal (GI) cancers (colon, stomach, liver, rectum, pancreas) who were receiving chemotherapy for the first time.
To explore perspectives on music therapy as a nursing intervention in adult cancer care and to expand and integrate knowledge and understanding about music therapy as an adjunctive intervention in adult cancer nursing care.
To investigate older Mexican Americans' perceptions of cancer care delivery, specifically regarding perceived discrimination.
To explore the feasibility of implementing centering prayer in chemotherapy treatment and assess its influence on mood, spiritual well-being, and quality of life in women with recurrent ovarian cancer.
To discuss the history of cancer survivorship, related quality-of-life issues, and cancer survivorship care plans (CSCPs).
To investigate tensions over food that exist between patients with advanced cancer with cachexia and their families.
To determine the magnitude of selected obstacles and supportive behaviors in providing end-of-life (EOL) care to patients with cancer as perceived by oncology nurses.
To explore the factors that contribute to women's intention to avoid strenuous arm activity after breast cancer surgery.
To use Leventhal's Common Sense Model (CSM) to describe older breast cancer survivors' symptom representations, symptom management strategies, and perceived barriers to symptom management.
The aim of our study was to analyze a healthy Hungarian population for the frequencies of the Los Angeles and Duarte galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase variant alleles.
The authors present the method and technique of CT angiography, added their own experience acquired on 700 patients in the last 3 years. Beside other vascular imaging methods the importance of CT angiography and its usefulness is demonstrated.
The goal of the study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of the botulinum toxin injection, in patients with focal dystonia and hemifacial spasm.
Chest x rays (CXRs) are among the most difficult radiographs to interpret accurately. The aim of this study was to assess the ability of different grades and specialities of clinicians to evaluate a series of CXRs correctly.
To compare the clinical and laboratory features of confirmed cases of Chikungunya and Dengue fever; to validate the clinical diagnosis based on serology.
We prospectively studied patients referred to secondary care with acute tonsillitis, peritonsillar cellulitis and quinsy (peritonsillar abscess) to see if recommended treatment guidelines were being followed and whether antibiotic resistance was contributing to admission.
To examine the influence of the accuracy of fit on mouthguard retention in relation to mouthguard outline location.
To measure cuspal flexure of intact and restored maxillary premolars with different restorative materials and occlusal contacts.
Recurrent oral aphthous ulceration is a common condition treated with topical anti-inflammatory drugs, such as triamcinolone acetonide in Orabase (Kenalog in Orabase, Bristol-Myers Squibb). The aim of the study was to synthesize a novel dental paste containing dexamethasone and assess the therapeutic effect of this paste in comparison with a commonly used treatment, triamcinolone acetonide in Orabase, in oral aphthous ulceration.
To evaluate the retention and the wear of different prefabricated precision ball attachments consecutively during long-term use.
In the previous decade, several reports have been published regarding implants inserted in autografts, but none have analyzed implants inserted in fresh-frozen bone allografts. Thus, a retrospective study was planned to verify if 4-months' delay from grafting to implant insertion is a safe period before prosthetic rehabilitation of implants placed in fresh-frozen bone allografts.
To evaluate intraexaminer reliability in measurement of basic tooth color by use of a clinically applicable spectrophotometer.
Dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccines have a potential utility for use in the treatment of malignancy. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) may provide a more cost-effective and reliable source of DCs for immunotherapy purposes, providing on-demand access for patients.
Current efforts to treat myocardial infarction include the delivery of cells and matrix scaffolds. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) are multipotent stem cells that secrete angiogenic growth factors, and fibrin has been shown to be a biomaterial that provides structural support to cells and tissues. The objective of this study was to characterize the attachment and viability of BM-MSCs in fibrin in vitro, and then to assess the efficacy of treatment with BM-MSCs in fibrin for promoting neovascularization in the chronically infarcted myocardium.
Regenerative medicine is an emerging field with the potential to provide widespread improvement in healthcare and patient wellbeing via the delivery of therapies that can restore, regenerate or repair damaged tissue. As an industry, it could significantly contribute to economic growth if products are successfully commercialized. However, to date, relatively few products have reached the market owing to a variety of barriers, including a lack of funding and regulatory hurdles. The present study analyzes industry perceptions of the barriers to commercialization that currently impede the success of the regenerative medicine industry in the UK.
To describe the studies conducted to design the control of ARA test (CARAT) questionnaire.
This study describes levels of stress in stroke survivors and spousal caregivers and identifies predictors of stress in couples during their first year at home.
Stroke caregivers often express the need for information about stroke and assistance with stroke-related care in the early discharge period. The Telephone Assessment and Skill-Building Kit (TASK) is an 8-week program that addresses caregiver needs. This study explored the efficacy of the TASK program in improving stroke caregiver outcomes.
A Web-based education/support intervention for caregivers of stroke survivors was developed. A prospective, descriptive design was used to identify caregivers' reported reasons for stroke survivors' health care service use (i.e., health care provider and emergency department visits, hospital readmissions) during the first year after initial treatment.
We conducted a non-controlled pilot intervention study in stroke survivors to examine the efficacy of low-intensity adaptive physical activity to increase balance, improve walking function, and increase cardiovascular fitness and to determine whether improvements were carried over into activity profiles in home and community.
To compare the differences in frontal esthetics in the lower face among Caucasian models, Korean models, and Korean nonmodels.
To evaluate the effect of the straight-pull headgear and activator (Andresen type) treatment on the eruption pattern of impacted maxillary canines.
To study the reliability of the Tanaka-Johnston mixed-dentition analysis in Turkish individuals and develop a new population-adjusted regression equation for predicting the size of unerupted canines and premolars. The new regression equations were tested to establish their validity in Turkish children.
To develop a new cephalometric measurement to evaluate the sagittal relationship between the maxilla and mandible.
Diffuse invasion of single-glioma cells is the main obstacle to successful therapy of these tumours. After identifying vesicle amine transport protein-1 (VAT-1) as being upregulated in invasive human gliomas, we study its possible function in glioblastoma cell migration.
Cancer stem-like cells might have important functions in chemoresistance. We have developed a model where highly infiltrative brain tumours with a stem-like phenotype were established by orthotopic transplantation of human glioblastomas to immunodeficient rats. Serial passaging gradually transformed the tumours into a less invasive and more angiogenic phenotype (high-generation tumours). The invasive phenotype (low-generation tumours) was characterized by an increase in stem cell markers and increased phosphorylation of kinases in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway. These markers were reduced in the serially passaged vascular tumours. The present study was aimed at investigating how the two phenotypes responded in vitro to doxorubicin, a clinically potent cytotoxic drug for solid tumours.
To find the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in type-2 diabetics without manifestations of overt coronary heart disease and to estimate the prevalence of silent myocardial ischaemia in these patients.
To evaluate the validity and reliability of the modified Patient Health Questionnaire(PHQ) 12 item instrument as a screening tool for assessing depression compared to the PHQ-9 in a representative south Indian urban population.
The aim of this study was to systematically review the studies on the association between diabetes mellitus (DM) and destructive periodontal disease.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the severity of the findings of dental plaque, calculus and deepened periodontal pockets in relation to self-reported toothbrushing frequency in a group of elderly Lithuanians. The authors hypothesised that those reporting twice daily toothbrushing exhibit less severe periodontal findings.
The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of 3% neem, 2% triclosan, 0.2% chlorhexidine gluconate and 1% sodium hypochlorite as toothbrush disinfectants against Streptococcus mutans.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of three topical fluoride treatments to arrest initial root carious lesions.
The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between self-control and self-confidence, and students' self-rated oral health and oral-health-related behaviours.
The aim of this study was to estimate the oral impact on daily performances (OIDPs) and its association with self-reported quality of life, sociodemographic and oral health conditions, self-reported oral symptoms and access to a clinician in elderly people.
The aim of this study was to investigate the association between cognitive and behavioural factors of preadolescents and those of their mothers, assessed in terms of self-efficacy beliefs and toothbrushing among Turkish and Finnish population in the framework of Social Cognitive Theory. The specific objective was to test if this possible association worked regardless of cultural differences.
The role of demographic, socioeconomic and psychological factors that influence the subjective assessment of dental needs has been the subject of contemporary dental research. The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between self-reported and clinically diagnosed dental needs, with the view of understanding the factors that affect subjective assessments of dental problems.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether self-liking, self-competence, body investment and perfectionism were associated with self-reported oral health status and oral-health-related behaviours.
Studies of the effect of transoesophageal echocardiography (TOE) on intraoperative decision making commonly emphasise major changes in operative plans. We examined more subtle effects using a novel scale, recording influences on management as follows: Level 1: TOE had no effect on management, confirmed and quantified known pathology. Level 2: TOE altered hemodynamic and/or anesthetic management. Level 3: TOE evaluated the adequacy of surgical intervention/or repair. Level 4: TOE led to an alteration in the surgical plan. We compared the impact of TOE as an aid to intra-operative management in coronary artery bypass cases with other types of cardiac surgery.
To assess the effect of sevoflurane anesthesia on hepatic function in morbidly obese versus non-obese patients undergoing abdominal surgeries.
Anemia is a common problem in the ICU population. Most patients are anemic at admission, their hemoglobin concentrations declining further thereafter. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a combination strategy, involving closed arterial blood gas sampling and the use of pediatric vials for phlebotomy (Group A), on the sampling-induced blood loss and the rate of decline in hemoglobin in adult ICU patients. Combination (Group A) was compared to the current standard technique of arterial line sampling and adult vial phlebotomy (Group B) in a prospective, randomised, ethically-approved trial for the first 72 hours of their ICU stay. Peri-operative, oncology, coagulopathic and uremic patients were excluded. All other ICU patients with arterial cannulae and predicted to stay beyond 3 days, were enrolled.
The present study was conducted to compare the effect of clonidine and gabapentin premedication in modifying the hyperdynamic response following laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation.
To collect data on the prevalence of various types of cancer pain in a sample of children with cancer, and to implement the WHO Analgesic Ladder in the management of pain in pediatric cancer.
The disadvantages of intravenous regional anesthesia (IVRA) include slow onset, poor muscle relaxation, tourniquet pain, and rapid onset of pain after tourniquet deflation. In this randomized, double-blind study, we evaluated the effect of nitroglycerin (NTG) in quality improvement when added to lidocaine in IVRA.
The purpose of this study was to describe the effects of a community-based, multidisciplinary team-led, lifestyle modification program on short-term weight loss in a morbidly obese (mean BMI 40.8 kg/m2), predominantly Native Hawaiian population.
Different techniques of general anesthesia are used for laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). The aim of the study was to establish the best anesthetic technique for achieving better results during awakening affecting not only patient's recovery, but activities of anesthesiological team, as well.
Today, breast reconstruction is a widely accepted method in the treatment of breast cancer after modified radical mastectomy. Reconstruction methods are associated with an acceptable number of complications and reconstruction favourably impacts quality of life. The aim of the study was to present our experience in breast reconstruction.
Lichen planus is a chronic, immunologic, mucocutaneous disease with a wide range of clinical manifestations. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the most common forms of oral lichen planus (OLP) and its symptoms and to describe treatment responses in patients during 10-year period.
Although there are several types of malignant oral cancers, more than 90% of all diagnosed oral cancers are squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Angiogenesis is a cascade-like mechanism which is essential for tumor growth and metastasis. Therefore, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in OSCC and its effect on clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis is of major interest. So far researches have shown that increased expression of this gene, in other words enhanced sinthesis of this protein (VEGF), independently on other factors, increases a chance for local relapse, and distant metastasis. Consequently, patients with OSCC have poor disease-free survival, as well as poor overall survival. The aim of the study was to determine clinical significance of VEGF expression in patients with stage II and III OSCC.
Perforated veins (PV) connect surface and deep veins net. Insufficient perforated veins (IPV) are considered to be one of the causes of the venous stasis syndrome. Ligating IPV removes increased pressure transmission from the deep veins to the surface veins system and prevents the occurrence of varicosis, as well. The aim of the study was to determine surface veins diameters prior and after the surgical operation on IPV, and to confirm good results of the treatment with this method in removing causes of the surface veins varicosis.
Cardiovascular diseases are a leading cause of death in the majority of developed, as well as in many developing countries. The aim of this study was to determine cardiovascular risk factors in student population and to suggest possible measures for prevention.
Exercise is a well recognized model of oxidative stress and, also, an important tool in diabetes management. The aim of our study was to evaluate oxidative stress in patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 and to determine influence of acute exercise training on the investigated parameters.
Inflammation plays a key role in the physiopathology of arteriosclerosis. C-reactive protein (CRP) and common carotid artery intima-media thickness are independent predictors of cardiovascular events and diabetes mellitus in apparently healthy men, but relationship between them is not fully elucidated. The aim of the study was to assess the cross-sectional relationship between CRP and cardiovascular risk factors with common carotid artery intima-media thickness in military pilots as representatives of healthy men.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a relatively rare malignant disease, of which 80,000 individuals become ill around the world annually, which amounts to 0.7% of all carcinomas. The aim of this descriptive study was to analyze NPC incidence in Belgrade (the capital city of Serbia, with about 1.6 milion inhabitants) during the period 1991-2005.
To review the titles, roles and scope of practice of Advanced Practice Nurses internationally.
This paper aims to explore Australian NP preferences for continuing education and NP access to electronic mediums that may increase CE opportunities.
To explore how CNCs who provide hospital wide support after hours (AHCSs) construct their role.
In continuous femoral nerve blocks, the various perineural positions of the tip of a conventional catheter and their clinical implication are not completely known.We used stimulating catheters to explore the relationship of catheter tip to nerve.
Stimulating perineural catheters are developed to overcome technical problems of nonstimulating catheters, but their efficacy remains controversial. However, no volume-response study has compared success rates between stimulating and nonstimulating catheters. This study of stimulating versus nonstimulating catheters compares the minimal effective volume required to successfully block the sciatic nerve in 50% of patients scheduled for unilateral hallux valgus repair.
To perform spinal anesthesia, patients are usually placed in the lateral decubitus position with the knees drawn up to the stomach, the legs fully flexed, and the neck flexed to curve the back outward. Because the nerve roots of the cauda equina have considerable mobility in the subarachnoid space, the position of the cauda equina in the lateral decubitus position may be different from that in the supine position. However, the anatomic position of the cauda equina in the lateral decubitus position with fully flexed legs has not been carefully studied. In the present study, we geometrically measured the movement of the cauda equina in the subarachnoid space by changing positions, using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
A clinically validated attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) scale in Arabic for evaluating children in Saudi Arabia who might be suspected of having ADHD is lacking. Thus, we studied the validity of an Arabic version of the ADHD Rating Scale in discriminating children with an ADHD diagnosis from normal children or from those with non-ADHD psychiatric diagnoses, including mental retardation.
Studies on exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in team sports are lacking. The aim of this study was to screen for EIB among amateur teenage football players in Tunisia and to compare EIB prevalence between regions.
Because breast cancer in men is rare, few patients are available for prospective studies. To learn more about its epidemiology, risk factors, clinical features, genetics and pathology in our country, we conducted a retrospective study of all cases seen in recent decades at our institution.
EQ-5D is a generic measure that permits comparisons in quality of life across disease states, and which may provide useful data for health policy and resource allocation decision-making. There are no published reports on the acceptability and psychometric properties of the EQ-5D in the Arabic language. We therefore investigated the validity and reliability of the Arabic translation of the EQ-5D in Jordan.
Fischer developed a scoring system in 1999 that made identifying malignnant lesions much easier for inexperienced radiologists. Our study was performed to assess whether this scoring system would help beginners to accurately diagnose breast lesions on magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and to assess the correlation between the magnetic resonance mammography Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (MRM BI-RADS) grade and the final diagnosis.
This study was conducted because of the lack of a comprehensive nationwide assessment of data on the anthropometric status and related health problems in Bahraini school children aged 6 to 18 years.
Adolescence is characterized by rapid physiological, social and cognitive changes. Aim of the present work is to study mental health of Saudi adolescent secondary school girls in Abha city, Aseer region, Saudi Arabia.
The manuscript review process is a central part of medicine, but has become increasingly the subject of criticism. A frequent claim is that the process is insufficiently objective and that it is inconsistent in its capacity to assess manuscript quality. Implicit in this is the expectation that manuscript review is, or should be, a 'scientific' process. In this paper I examine and critique this 'scientific imperative'.
This paper sought to review current knowledge about the relationship between substance misuse and early psychosis.
The aim of this paper is to describe the Child and Family Inclusive Practice program (CFIP), a pilot program implemented in an adult community mental health centre in Newcastle, New South Wales, which aimed to enhance family relationships through child and family inclusive practice.
The aim of this study was to quantify the costs and resource utilization associated with a relapse of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
The aim of this paper is to explore the relationship between civil commitment under a Community Treatment Order (CTO) and competence to consent to treatment.
The primary aim of the study was to investigate whether patient characteristics such as age, sex, length of inpatient stay and reason for admission were related to positive or negative treatment outcome at an adolescent inpatient unit.
This pilot study explored children's perspectives of an initial assessment at outpatient child and adolescent mental health services (CAMHS).
Treatment with second generation antipsychotics (SGAs) can increase the risk of patients with schizophrenia developing obesity, hyperlipidaemia and diabetes. Routine monitoring is recommended, but clinical practice suggests monitoring is not conducted at a rate necessary for these comorbidities. The aim was to audit what proportion of patients were having their weight, height, girth, body mass index, lipids and blood sugar levels monitored and recorded.
The population rate of alprazolam prescribing in Tasmania has been more than double that of national rates. Serious adverse events have been observed through co-administration of opioid medications with alprazolam. A two-fold intervention, comprising GP education coupled with changes to prescribing regulations, was designed with the intention to decrease inappropriate prescribing of alprazolam and thereby reduce adverse outcomes. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of the intervention on prescribing rates.
Recruitment of medical graduates into psychiatry has become a growing issue over the last few decades. This paper describes the implementation of an innovative program, based on a Canadian concept, that aimed to promote psychiatry as a career choice to medical students, to immerse them in the 'world of psychiatry', and introduce them to potential mentors. The University of Western Australia Institute of Psychiatry for Medical Students was a week-long program that provided medical students with an opportunity to participate in a diverse agenda of interactive seminars on a range of psychiatric subspecialties and the neurosciences. Students were also able to attend elective sessions and meet registrars and psychiatrists on an informal basis. Lunches and social events were also provided.
The objectives were, first, to determine attitudes towards psychiatry as a career among medical students currently enrolled at the University of Sydney and, second, to establish the immediate impact on those attitudes of a promotional DVD, released by the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists.
This paper looks at Freud's Jewish identity in the context of the Jewish experience in Eastern and Central Europe after 1800, using his family history and significant figures in his life as illustration. Sigmund Freud's life as a Jew is deeply paradoxical, if not enigmatic. He mixed almost exclusively with Jews while living all his life in an anti-Semitic environment. Yet he eschewed Jewish ritual, referred to himself as a godless Jew and sought to make his movement acceptable to gentiles. At the end of his life, dismayed by the rising forces of nationalism, he accepted that he was in his heart a Jew "in spite of all efforts to be unprejudiced and impartial". The 18th century Haskalla (Jewish Enlightenment) was a form of rebellion against conformity and a means of escape from shtetl life. In this intense, entirely inward means of intellectual escape and revolt against authority, strongly tinged with sexual morality, we see the same tensions that were to manifest in the publication by a middle-aged Viennese neurologist of a truly revolutionary book to herald the new 20th century: The Interpretation of Dreams. Freud's life and work needs to be understood in the context of fin-de-siecle Vienna. Mitteleuropa, the cultural renaissance of Central Europe, resulted from the emancipation and urbanization of the burgeoning Jewish middle class, who adopted to the cosmopolitan environment more successfully than any other group. In this there is an extreme paradox: the Jewish success in Vienna was a tragedy of success.
To evaluate the effectiveness of youth development in reducing teenage pregnancy, substance use, and other outcomes.
To independently evaluate the performance of the QRISK score for predicting 10 year risk of cardiovascular disease in an independent UK cohort of patients from general practice and compare the performance with Framingham equations.
The loss of an extraocular muscle is an infrequent but serious complication of strabismus surgery. The purpose is to show that a tailored tongue of Tenon's capsule, 7.0 mm to 9.0 mm wide and 12.0 mm to 14.0 mm long, fashioned in the direction of a lost medial rectus muscle and attached at the site of its original insertion can restore full ocular movement in the direction of action of the muscle.
To investigate the relationship between attainment in literacy skills and month of birth for primary and secondary school pupils and to determine the relationship between motor skills and month of birth in primary school pupils.
By using two Piagetian tests of formal operations, one of which had been used in the 1976 CSMS survey, the performance of Y8 and Y9 pupils would be compared with the survey results published in 1978.
The present study investigated students' conceptions of constructivist learning. Do students with greater experience in their academic programme differ in their conceptions of constructivist learning compared to students with less experience? In addition, to what extent are conceptions of constructivist learning different in a conventional, lecture-based curriculum compared to a constructivist, problem-based learning curriculum?
This study applied Dweck's socio-cognitive model of achievement motivation to better understand how students cope with examinations. It was expected that students' implicit theories of academic ability would be related to their use of particular coping strategies to deal with exam-related stress. Additionally, it was predicted that perceived control over exams acts as a mediator between implicit theories of ability and coping.
The presented study investigated what kind of socio-emotional challenges students experience during collaborative learning and whether the students regulate the emotions evoked during these situations. The interplay of the emotion regulation processes between the individual and the group was also studied.
The main aim of this study is to arrive at an understanding of how citizenship education can be integrated in history classes. The focus is on the effect of a dialogic approach to citizenship education on students' ability to justify an opinion on moral issues.
The primary objective of this study is to explore the relative and unique influence of parental support, behavioural control and psychological control (overprotection and autonomy granting) in school adjustment among upper secondary school students.
The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the instructional benefits of an iterative lesson sequence compared to a concepts-before-procedures sequence for students learning decimal place-value concepts and arithmetic procedures.
We conducted traditional psychometric and modern Rasch-model analyses of the Achievement Goals Questionnaire (AGQ, Elliot &amp; McGregor, 2001) and the Patterns of Adaptive Learning Scale (PALS, Midgley et al., 2000) to provide an in-depth analysis of the two most popular instruments in educational psychology.
The present study examines the psychometric properties of a survey instrument, the Student Research Experience Questionnaire (SREQ), for measuring the RHD experience of currently enrolled students. The core scales of the SREQ focus on student experiences of Supervision; Infrastructure; Intellectual and Social Climate; and Generic Skills Development.
Although standard total hip arthroplasties have a long and successful history as the standard of care for advanced, symptomatic osteoarthritis, there is increasing patient demand and surgeon interest in femoral bone conserving resurfacing alternatives. The purpose of this study was to assess the state of the research that directly compares the outcomes of conventional total hip arthroplasty procedures with the current generation of metal-on-metal resurfacing hip arthroplasties.
To examine the diagnostic sensitivity of graded exercise testing in young patients with documented SVT or ventricular preexcitation.
To evaluate the impact of the metabolic syndrome on aortic PP and ascending aortic pulsatility (AP) in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries.
To examine the expression of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor (alpha(1)-AR) and angiotensin II receptor (ATR) subtypes in the left ventricle of hearts from young adult, middle-aged, presenescent and senescent rats.
To review the literature and present an overview of the differentiation between and management of type 1 and type 2 AIT.
To determine the potential prognostic value of nonvasodilator stress PET MPI.
To assess the validity of the CCSA classification by comparing it with the Duke Activity Status Index (DASI) and evaluate its prognostic significance with respect to long-term mortality.
To study the effects of Celacade in rats on acute cytokine expression after coronary artery ligation, cardiac dimensions following myocardial infarction (MI), and systolic and diastolic function of cardiac muscle in MI.
Cytokines have an important role in both the initiation and perpetuation of viral myocarditis. Because a causative therapy of myocarditis is not yet well established and immunomodulation is a promising approach, the influence of interleukin (IL)-15, a proinflammatory cytokine, on the course of experimental myocarditis in Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3)-infected mice was examined.
The delay between the availability of clinical evidence and its application to the care of patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia remains undefined. The Saudi Project for Assessment of Coronary Events (SPACE) registry provides a comprehensive view of the current diagnostic and treatment strategies for patients with ACS; thus, the registry may be used to identify opportunities to improve the care of these patients.
The aims of this study were to measure the levels of bile acids in patients with suspected ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) and provide a possible pathway for neutrophilic inflammation to explain its proinflammatory effect on the airway.
To evaluate the therapeutic and optical application of a semi-limbal diameter (S-LIM) rigid gas permeable (RGP) contact lens.
To determine the effect of four marketed multipurpose contact lens solutions (MPSs) on corneal epithelial cell viability.
Inhalational anaesthetic agents are a cornerstone in modern anaesthetic practice. The currently used compounds are very effective and have a good safety profile. In addition, it has been demonstrated that they possess organ-protective properties that might provide an additional tool in the treatment or prevention of the consequences of organ ischaemia-reperfusion injury or both. The present review summarizes some of the most recent findings on this subject.
Since the introduction of oral immediate release and controlled-release oxycodone preparations to the market in the 1990s, the clinical use and scientific interest in oxycodone has increased greatly.
We review the efficacy and safety of gantacurium and AV002, two novel, investigational fumarate-based nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockers, as well as sugammadex and cysteine, two novel reversal drugs that have no acetylcholinesterase inhibition properties.
Studies from the anesthesiology literature published in the last 2 years were selected to illustrate the most important developments in the field of pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling.
Opioid administration is a mainstay of anesthetic practice both for treating acute perioperative pain and for chronic pain syndromes. Growing pharmacogenetic data make it evident that many opiate-related phenomena are influenced by genetics. Genetic variation may significantly affect opiate absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicity. We provide a current review of opiate pharmacogenetics.
The purpose of this review is to define the responsibility and designation of anesthesia personnel to nonoperating room location anesthesia and their education in this regard. The review will also define the safety standards, guidelines, physical environment, equipment, accreditation, the quality of care and patient and procedural selection.
To present recent experiences and studies on the pharmacologic profile of levosimendan in the context of surgery, anesthesia and critical care. Special emphasis is on the studies that could support the use of or create novel indications for levosimendan in these patients.
Cardiovascular diseases are counted among the most prevalent morbidities in western nations and they still are the leading cause of death in these countries. An increasingly aging population will confront all physicians with a growing number of patients having cardiovascular dysfunction. Anesthesiologists need to be familiar with upcoming new cardiologic procedures to provide hemodynamic stability during these procedures.
A growing number of procedures are performed outside the operating room. In spite of their relatively noninvasive nature, serious adverse outcomes can occur. We analyzed claims from 1990 and later in the American Society of Anesthesiologists Closed Claims database to assess patterns of injury and liability associated with claims from anesthesia in remote locations (n = 87) compared with claims from operating room procedures (n = 3287).
Because propofol is the sedative preferred by gastroenterologists, we focus this review on gastroenterologist-directed propofol sedation, provide simulations of the respiratory depressant effect of different dosing protocols and give a perspective on future developments in computer-assisted sedation techniques.
Safety, quality, and patient satisfaction are not only defined by the incidences of serious adverse events but also include postoperative outcomes such as postdischarge nausea and vomiting (PDNV). PDNV has a high impact on patient recovery and may influence the cost-effectiveness of office-based surgical procedures. This article reviews the incidences and risk factors for PDNV as well as medications and concepts for prophylaxis and treatment.
Sedation and anesthesia outside the operating room represents a rapidly growing field of practice that involves a number of different specialty providers including anesthesiology. The literature surrounding this work is found in a variety of journals - many outside anesthesiology. This review is intended to inform readers about the current status of risk and safety involving sedation/anesthesia for tests and minor procedures utilizing a wide range of sources.
The paraoxonase (PON) gene family includes three members, PON1, PON2, and PON3. In-vitro and mouse studies have demonstrated that all three PONs are atheroprotective. Some, but not all, human epidemiologic studies have observed associations between PON gene polymorphisms and risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). In this review, we summarize studies published within the last year, elucidating involvement of PON1 and PON2 in oxidative stress, CVD, and innate immune responses.
To compare non-HDL-cholesterol (non-HDL-C) and apolipoprotein B (apoB) as targets for LDL-lowering therapy. The conventional approach is restricted to a comparison of in-trial data. Although essential, this overlooks the issue as to which marker better identifies residual risk after any particular treatment regimen.
Inherited lipodystrophies are rare autosomal recessive and dominant disorders characterized by selective, but variable, loss of adipose tissue. Marked hypertriglyceridemia is a common feature of these disorders and highlights the role of adipose tissue in lipid homeostasis. In the last decade, advances have been made in elucidating the molecular basis of many inherited lipodystrophies. We review the new insights in the pathophysiology and treatment of these disorders based on the current understanding of the biologic role of these lipodystrophy genes.
Lipodystrophy or fat re-distribution, and its associated metabolic abnormalities, are common in HIV patients. The pathogenesis is multifactorial. This article provides an update on the latest findings of the different clinical management strategies that have been utilized in patients with lipodystrophy.
Nicotinic acid is the most potent treatment clinically available for lowering LDL cholesterol and VLDL cholesterol and raising HDL cholesterol. The strong inverse relationship between coronary heart disease risk and HDL cholesterol at all levels of LDL cholesterol has, therefore, given renewed emphasis on the therapeutic potential of niacin. The purpose of this review is to evaluate advances in the elucidation of mechanisms by which nicotinic acid affects the lipoprotein profile and, more recently, emerging evidence of nonlipid-mediated anti-inflammatory effects.
Chronic kidney disease is associated with specific alterations of lipoprotein metabolism that may be linked to accelerated atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. This review summarizes current knowledge of the pathophysiology of renal dyslipidemia and the therapeutic options.
Despite over 50 years of research, the relevance of triglycerides to coronary heart disease risk remains uncertain.
Abundant data in rodents suggest an important role for peroxisomal proliferators-activated receptor-delta (PPARdelta) in regulating skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation and this has consequences for lipid and lipoprotein metabolism. Considerably less is known in humans and this review will focus on evidence derived from studies of the PPARD gene and pharmacological use of specific PPARdelta agonists.
Paraoxonase-1 (PON1) is an HDL-associated protein of 354 amino acids with a molecular mass of 43 000 Da. It is synthesized in the liver, and in serum it is almost exclusively associated with HDL. PON1 has been reported to be an important contributor to the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities of HDL. PON1 impedes oxidative modification of LDL. PON1 serum activity is related to systemic lipid peroxidation stress and prospective cardiovascular risk. In this review, we discuss the relationship between PON1 activity and atherosclerotic diseases and various factors modulating PON1 activity including genes, age, lifestyle factors and medical conditions. Finally, evidence that pharmacological agents may affect PON1 activity is summarized.
Recent studies have begun to evaluate the heterogeneity of insulin resistance in syndromes associated with type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia and associated cardiac, renal and hepatic consequences. These insights are of particular importance in Alström syndrome in which all of these conditions coexist from a young age with considerable morbidity and reduction in life expectancy. Clear definition of the phenotype in the syndrome may clarify biochemical pathways of crucial importance in propensity to diabetic complications and heart disease in the general population. This review will focus on ways in which more effective treatments can be put in place for Alström families from childhood and adolescence.
As the role of lipids and inflammation in the genesis and progression of the atherosclerosis disease is unquestionable, novel treatment modalities that target both aspects are currently under investigation.
The term 'cerebellar ataxias' encompasses the various cerebellar disorders encountered during daily practice. Patients exhibit a cerebellar syndrome and can also present with pigmentary retinopathy, extrapyramidal movement disorders, pyramidal signs, cortical symptoms (seizures, cognitive impairment/behavioural symptoms), and peripheral neuropathy. The clinical diagnosis of subtypes of ataxias is complicated by the salient overlap of the phenotypes between genetic subtypes. The identification of the causative mutations of many hereditary ataxias and the development of relevant animal models bring hope for effective therapies in neurodegenerative ataxias.
This review examines recent developments in the field of myoclonus.
This article reviews recent developments in the field of amyloid imaging using PET, specifically the ability to quantify the amount and distribution of brain beta-amyloid, the protein that occupies a central position in leading theories of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Recent studies have improved our knowledge of the factors responsible for the development of dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease and the associated pathophysiology. Deep brain stimulation has been shown to be effective to treat severe tardive dyskinesias. This review highlights some recent findings related to levodopa-induced and antipsychotic-induced dyskinesias.
Arterial spin labeling (ASL) provides an endogenous and completely noninvasive tracer for the quantification of regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Although the measurement of CBF has obvious utility in cerebrovascular disorders, because CBF is closely coupled to neural metabolism, ASL perfusion MRI has a broad range of potential applications as a biomarker of regional brain function in basic and clinical neuroscience.
Akinesia, rigidity and low-frequency rest tremor are the three cardinal motor signs of Parkinson's disease and some Parkinson's disease animal models. However, cumulative evidence supports the view that akinesia/rigidity vs. tremor reflect different pathophysiological phenomena in the basal ganglia. Here, we review the recent physiological literature correlating abnormal neural activity in the basal ganglia with Parkinson's disease clinical symptoms.
Recent developments in the statistical physics of complex networks have been translated to neuroimaging data in an effort to enhance our understanding of human brain structural and functional networks. This review focuses on studies using graph theoretical measures applied to structural MRI, diffusion MRI, functional MRI, electroencephalography, and magnetoencephalography data.
The intent of this study is to review trends in multicenter neuroimaging trials and their value for research and implications for clinical treatment.
In the past 18 months, several important studies in neuroimaging, epidemiology of dystonia and animal models have been published. Moreover, new advances in genetics have broadened the spectrum of dystonia. Here, we discuss these findings and their implication in the pathophysiology of dystonia.
Cytoarchitectonical brain mapping is of growing interest as a powerful tool for localization of activated brain regions in functional neuroimaging. Mapping of neurotransmitter receptors can provide novel molecular and functionally relevant information to the available cytoarchitectonical brain maps, because receptors are key molecules of neurotransmission. This review highlights the relation between cytoarchitectonical parcellations and the regionally inhomogeneous distribution of receptors. It will demonstrate the potential of receptor mapping for novel and functionally relevant insights into the regional organization of the human cortex.
This review summarizes the progress made in the area of psychogenic movement disorders (PMDs) over the past 2 years, and a simplified classification of diagnostic certainty is proposed that incorporates electrophysiological assessment.
Advances in magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM) make it practical to map gene variants responsible for structural variation in brains of many species, including mice and humans. We review results of a systematic genetic analysis of MRM data using as a case study a family of well characterized lines of mice.
Tremor continuously attracts the attention of clinicians and basic researchers in search of pathophysiological, molecular and genetic mechanisms of the oscillatory activity.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has a unique capability to delineate axonal tracts within the white matter, which has not been possible with previous noninvasive imaging techniques. In the past 10 years, we have witnessed a large increase in the use of DTI-based studies and a score of new anatomical knowledge and image analysis tools have been introduced in recent years. This review will provide an overview of the recent advancements in DTI-based studies and new image analysis tools.
The stability of immobilization devices varies from flexible to rigid, depending on the trauma. We evaluated the rigidity of various commonly used splints in vitro
To report the outcome of the endodontic treatment of a reimplanted central maxillary incisor with open apex after 8 years and 7 months of follow-up.
The cerebral state index (CSI) is a low-cost and compact electroencephalographic monitor alternative to the bispectral index (BIS). Although both indices are shown as the number between 0 and 100, owing to the different calculation algorithms, both indices might be different during anaesthesia. The present study was performed to compare the BIS and CSI during sevoflurane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia.
To know whether the application of patient-controlled analgesia devices could be avoided if intrathecal morphine is given in combination with spinal anaesthesia.
Ketamine, which is a general anaesthetic that induces a dissociative anaesthesia, acts by blocking the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) in the brain. Although ketamine elevates blood pressure under the clinical setting, the in-vitro effect of ketamine is vasodilatory. However, it is not clear yet whether the vasodilation by ketamine involves functions of the NMDAr. Therefore, we examined whether the NMDAr is functional in vascular smooth muscle and whether the vasodilatory effect of ketamine is associated with the NMDAr.
We investigated the usefulness of an Endoflex tracheal tube, the tip of which can be bent forward by pulling on a wire held in the hand, for oral and nasal endotracheal intubations without a stylet, in comparison with tracheal intubation using a conventional endotracheal tube and a stylet/Magill forceps.
Insulin glargine as a basal insulin exhibits constant absorption with no pronounced peaks in blood insulin levels and 24-h duration of action. We checked the effect of insulin glargine through the comparison of insulin glargine with glucose-insulin-potassium (GIK) on perioperative glucose control in insulin-treated type 2 diabetic patients.
Personality factors have been found to influence long-term postoperative depressive symptoms, health and distress in inpatients. To our knowledge, no studies have analysed whether the personality traits of day surgery patients relate to postoperative recovery. Hence, this study aims to explore possible relationships between personality traits and the quality of postoperative recovery in patients undergoing day surgery.
It is not known whether anaesthetic practices for ASA I parturients undergoing scheduled caesarean delivery have changed since the last (1996) survey and how practices reflect current recommendations.
Intravenously administered paracetamol is an effective analgesic in postoperative pain management. However, there is a lack of data on the effect of intravenous (i.v.) paracetamol on pain following soft tissue surgery.
The aim of this study was to compare a cerebral oximeter with transcranial Doppler (TCD) as a neurological monitor in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy under regional anaesthesia.
Obesity is a major risk factor for lower back pain. Fluoroscope-guided medial branch block is a common diagnostic tool in these patients. Although approach to the facet joint guided by ultrasound has been demonstrated successfully in lean patients, its success in obese patients is unknown.We therefore evaluated the success rate of real-time ultrasound approach in obese patients in a clinical feasibility study.
Evaluation of the efficacy and safety of central venous catheter (CVC) use during prehospital emergency care.
To assess patient satisfaction in a French Emergency Department (ED) and to determine factors associated with dissatisfaction.
Utilization of hospital emergency departments (EDs) is continuously increasing. Though nurses and physicians are ultimately responsible for the definite triage decisions, initial ED patient triage is frequently performed by hospital admission staff. This study analyzes the quality of assessment of the severity of emergencies and the choice of treatment unit made by hospital admission staff.
Our goal was to determine the attitudes of relatives of the patients presenting to our emergency department regarding witnessed resuscitation and to elucidate the sociodemographic variables affecting their perspectives.
To share hospital beds inside the European community.
This study is a cross-sectional analysis of the types and prevalence of contact lens (CL)-related complications among CL wearing patients seen in a university clinic setting.
To compare grading of a biomicroscopy sign between eye care practitioners in three countries of widely different geographies-the United States, Australia, and Germany-and to test the accuracy of grading the sign within each country.
To report the efficacy and safety profile of sutureless and adhesiveless amniotic membrane device (ProKera, Bio-Tissue, Inc., Miami, FL) in the management of various ocular surface and orbital disorders.
Management of in-the-bag spontaneous bilateral subluxation of posterior-chamber intraocular lens(PCIOL) with sutureless fibrin-glue-assisted PCIOL implantation.
To evaluate the changes in the corneal stroma after Descemet stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK) using tandem scanning confocal microscopy (CM).
To evaluate the recurrence rates of herpes simplex virus (HSV) keratitis in contact lens wearers compared with non-contact lens wearers.
The objectives of this study were to assess current recommendations for replacement frequency (RF) of silicone hydrogel (SH) and daily disposable (DD) lenses, to determine compliance with these recommendations, and to investigate the reasons given for noncompliance.
To report a case of daily wear soft contact lens-associated keratitis caused by Alcaligenes xylosoxidans in a portable toilet sanitation worker.
Previous studies in the United States have evaluated the benefits of soft contact lenses (CLs) in 8- to 12-year-old children and 13- to 17-year-old teens. This study was undertaken in Singapore and evaluated the safety, efficacy, and physiologic performance of daily disposable soft lenses in a population of children.
To determine the differential features of tear physiology and meibomian gland function in blepharitics for ascertaining the diagnostic potential of a number of clinical tests.
To report a patient with unrecognized amantadine-induced corneal edema.
To reexamine the efficacy of terminating migraine headache by administration of sumatriptan during the visual-aura phase of the attack. Background.- Although the antimigraine action of triptans is most effective soon after onset of the headache, treatment during the aura phase has been found to be ineffective.
Spontaneous intracranial hypotension has become a well-described cause of headache particularly among young and middle-aged individuals. Treatment of the underlying spinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak is effective in relieving symptoms in the vast majority of patients but symptoms may become refractory. The author describes a novel surgical technique to treat intractable spontaneous intracranial hypotension.
To investigate if the effectiveness of a 96-hour multidisciplinary headache treatment program exceeds the effectiveness of a 20-hour program and primary care.
To evaluate efficacy and tolerability of a single, fixed-dose tablet of sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium) vs placebo in migraineurs who had discontinued treatment with a short-acting triptan because of poor response or intolerance.
The main objective of the COTA survey was to investigate migraine management by pharmacy personnel who considered themselves as migraineurs.
A strong association has been demonstrated between migraine, particularly in the chronic form and with medication overuse, and either major depression or various anxiety disorders. However, there has been less systematic research on the links between migraine with medication-overuse headache (MOH) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). A drug-seeking behavior shares with OCD the compulsive quality of the behavior. We investigated the relationship between OCD and MOH in migraineurs.
To study the epidemiological spectrum of cutaneous vasculitides as seen in a dermatologic clinic and to determine the clinico-pathological correlation.
The purpose of this study was to explore any association between MF and presence of HTLV-1 infection in Iran.
The purpose of this study is to assess the psychosocial impact as well as effects of keloids on the subjects in a black African population where lesions are commonly seen.
The objective of the study was to assess the outcome of DCP therapy in pemphigus.
Regarding these probable and possible risk factors, we felt that jail is a unique population which can be affected by this infection and therefore we decided to evaluate some aspects of this infection in this population.
The aim of the study was to develop a mathematical model for laser hair removal using agent-based modeling and to make a user-friendly simulation environment.
Opportunistic viral infections cause increased morbidity and mortality among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected individuals, especially those who are not on antiretroviral treatment. Early diagnosis of these opportunistic viruses will be able to reduce the risk of disease progression with appropriate intervention.
To evaluate the performance of an automated BACTEC MGIT 960, a non-radioactive, non-invasive liquid culture system for cultivation of M. tuberculosis complex in terms of recovery rate and time.
Evaluation of rapid and accurate technique for the diagnosis of congenital CMV infection.
Because of the emergence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in recent times, the rapid detection of resistance to the first-line anti-tuberculosis drug rifampicin was felt worldwide. Accordingly, this study was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic potential of polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) for checking its utility as a rapid screening test for determination of rifampicin drug resistance.
There has been an increase in the number of individuals administered antiretroviral therapy (ART) in India but treatment outcome is hampered by increasing development of drug resistance. Previous reports from India have shown M184V as the commonest mutation in treated individuals. However, there is no evidence for any protease mutations in these reports. This study was done to observe the common/unique mutational patterns observed in reverse transcriptase (RT) and protease (Pr) genes of clade C HIV-1 strains from individuals showing treatment failure in India.
Chronic otitis media with effusion (OME) is the leading cause of hearing loss during childhood. In bacterial etiology of OME, the most frequent pathogens responsible are Haemophilus influenzae followed by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Moraxella catarrhalis. This study aimed at evaluating the accuracy of nasopharyngeal (NP) specimens in the identification of pathogens in the middle ear fluid (MEF) in patients with OME.
To estimate the burden of AEs in the elderly in India and use of Beers criteria for assessing appropriateness of drug prescription in them.
To evaluate the efficacy of clofibrate in reducing total serum bilirubin levels in late pre-term neonates with non-hemolytic jaundice.
To describe the survival pattern of patients on Directly Observed Treatment-Short course (DOTS) according to categories, age and sex of patients.
This study was conducted to evaluate association between VDR polymorphisms and genetic susceptibility to T2DM in the north Indian population.
This article is an attempt to review recent literature regarding pathogenesis and clinical and laboratory findings in adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD).
The epidemiology of Trichomonas vaginalis infection among sexually active socially-marginalized women in three urban, coastal Peruvian cities was examined in order to quantify the prevalence of trichomonas infection and identify associated risk factors.
To assess the protective efficacy of Spirulina platensis against collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in female Wistar rats based on the changes in paws thickness, serum albumin, cholesterol, lipid peroxidation, alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase activities and histology of paw joints.
The specific action of capsaicin (capsaicinoids) on sensory afferent nerves modifying gastrointestinal (GI) function (under very specific conditions) offers a possibility for the production of an orally applicable drug or for other drug combinations, which can be used in the human medical therapy. The production of new drug is based on the critical interdisciplinary review of the results obtained with capsaicinoids.
To compare and quantify the effectiveness of multifactorial versus exercise-alone interventions in reducing recurrent falls among community-dwelling older people.
The current study examines the prevalence of health risk behaviors and their cumulative effects on cardiovascular disease (CVD) among a sample of adults. Age cohort is also examined to determine the role of age in predicting CVD and risky health behaviors.
To explore the impact of adjusting for income and education on disparities in functional limitations and limitations in activities of daily living (ADLs) between Black and White older Americans.
There may be ethical issues associated with allowing certain inpatients to vote as some may be cognitively impaired. During the 2007 elections in France, we conducted a prospective observational study on voting among hospitalized patients.
To develop a 3D computer model of the anterior vaginal wall and its supports, validate that model, and then use it to determine the combinations of muscle and connective tissue impairments that result in cystocele formation, as observed on dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Bleeding and allogeneic transfusion remain constant problems in cardiac surgical procedures. In this study, we aimed to test the role of a routine thromboelastography (TEG)-based algorithm on bleeding and transfusions in patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
Data on coronary artery bypass grafts flows in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) requiring epicardial ventricular pacing is lacking. This study aimed to evaluate the optimal epicardial ventricular pacing site in patients with AF following coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG).
The placement of lumbar spinal drains is being done with increasing frequency to facilitate high-risk surgical procedures. One risk associated with these procedures is catheter shearing, resulting in a retained foreign body in the intrathecal space. Unlike retained epidural fragments, there are no guidelines on the management of this complication. The purpose of this article was to synthesize the literature on this subject to come up with guidelines for preventing and managing this complication.
Patients undergoing surgical procedures through median sternotomy have reduced pulmonary function in the postoperative period. Our study was designed to evaluate the effect of pleural integrity in terms of respiratory functions and pain score after coronary bypass procedures.
The authors hypothesized that pre-exposure to normobaric hyperoxia (H) reduces ischemia and reperfusion-induced arrhythmias in isolated rat hearts.
In view of the crisis anticipated in French surgery, this study sought to analyze the choices of specialties of interns who passed the most recent national ranking exam (NRE), as well as the plans for specialization of medical students and to determine the factors influencing these choices.
The aim of this study was to compare the surgical and functional results of hand-sewn and stapled colonic J-pouch anastomoses after proctectomies for cancer.
The objective of the study was to investigate the expression and regulation of sFlt1-e15a, a recently described novel C-terminal variant isoform of sFlt1.
Our aim was to evaluate recurrence of hyperprolactinemia in patients meeting The Pituitary Society guidelines.
The aim was to study the expression and function of Tie-2 and their ligands, angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) and Ang-2, in thyroid glands and monocytes from patients with autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD).
The aim was to investigate upstream components of the pathways that culminate in activation of p38MAPK and JNK.
Our aim was to study biochemical markers of bone turnover, indices of the metabolic syndrome, and various risk markers for CV disease in patients with mild pHPT randomized to observation without surgery or operative treatment and followed for 2 yr.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the involvement of the extracellular matrix contractility of eutopic and ectopic endometrial stromal cells during the tissue remodeling processes associated with decidualization.
The aim of the study was to identify the mutation responsible for neonatal diabetes in this patient and characterize its functional effects.
The aim of the study was to measure PCSK9 levels in a large, ethnically diverse population (n = 3138) utilizing a sensitive and specific sandwich ELISA.
This study aimed to address the relationship of serum ZAG levels with adiposity and cardiometabolic risk factors in humans.
An experimentally controlled sex-steroid milieu will permit detection of nonsteroidal factors that determine GH secretion.
The aim of the study was to evaluate GnRH pulse generator sensitivity to P-mediated slowing in normal and hyperandrogenic girls.
We examined whether lower serum testosterone was an independently significant risk factor for symptomatic cerebrovascular events in older men.
Of the recently identified type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) susceptibility loci, transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) confers the greatest relative risk for T2D and significantly predicts conversion to T2D in persons with impaired glucose tolerance. TCF7L2 is, therefore, also a strong candidate gene for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a common endocrine disorder characterized by androgen excess and menstrual irregularities and associated with insulin resistance and a 7-fold increased risk for T2D.
Our objective was to investigate the effects of LH pretreatment on subsequent ovarian stimulation with FSH in longstanding HH women.
The aim was to investigate the molecular mechanism of HSD17B5 regulation.
The aim of the study was to monitor the effect of the Danish iodine fortification program on incidence of hyperthyroidism as measured by the incident use of antithyroid medication.
The aim was to investigate the impact of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) on the regulation of lipolysis by catecholamine and for the first time atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) before and after 16 wk of aerobic training.
The aim was to evaluate effects of simvastatin on development of endometriosis in a nude mouse model.
The aim of the study was to determine whether patients with GHD and prior acromegaly have a poorer quality of life than those with GH sufficiency after cure of acromegaly.
Our objective was to determine the effect of transdermal NES gel alone or with T gel on gonadotropin suppression.
Cholestatic liver dysfunction and biliary sludge are common problems in critically ill patients. No specific strategies have been described to prevent cholestasis and biliary sludge in the intensive care unit (ICU). We examined liver dysfunction and biliary sludge prospectively in a large medical long-stay ICU population and hypothesized that tight glycemic control with intensive insulin therapy (IIT) reduces cholestasis and biliary sludge.
Our objective was to prospectively investigate the effect of parenteral iron polymaltose on phosphate homeostasis and to determine whether any observed change was related to alterations in circulating FGF23.
The aim of the study was to identify factors influencing the development of osteoarthritis during long-term control of acromegaly, focusing on disease-specific parameters, GH and IGF-I concentrations, and duration of disease, adjusted for the well-known determinants of primary osteoarthritis.
The objective of the study was to investigate whether plasma C-terminal provasopressin fragment (copeptin), a surrogate for circulating AVP, was associated with measures of insulin resistance and presence of MetSyn.
The aim was to evaluate changes in chromogranin A (CgA) concentration in hyperthyroidism and to assess its metabolic correlations.
To shed light on the mechanisms of RET-induced apoptosis, we searched for novel interactors of RET51.
The objective of the study was to examine the psychosexual function of males with anorchia.
This study sought to determine whether PPARD variation influenced height.
We investigated the imprinting control and promoter usage for IGF2 expression to identify a mechanism for increased IGF-II production in non-islet-cell tumor hypoglycemia.
The aim was to investigate the mechanism of the action of dexamethasone on adrenocortical cells removed from patients with PPNAD and a transgenic model of PPNAD [Tg(tTA/X2AS) mice].
The aim was to study the relationship between CAI and sleep-related breathing disorders.
Our objective was to evaluate the relationship between 25-OHD and Ca-abs in a large cohort of school-age children and adolescents.
The aim was to determine whether urine pentosidine, an AGE, was associated with fractures in older adults with and without diabetes.
The objective of the study was defining the functional and molecular phenotypes of FNAH and comparing them with the ones of AA.
Our objective was to study placental handling of TTR and determine whether TTR participates in placental thyroid hormone transport. We investigated the capacity of human placenta and choriocarcinoma cell lines to secrete and internalize TTR and its ligands by Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and uptake of radiolabeled TTR.
The growing number of spliced variants found in similar receptor families, often present in tumors, and results from our group obtained on sst5 from other species (pig) led us to explore the existence of new human sst5 isoforms.
Our objective was to determine whether retreating with teriparatide after a drug-free period can restore the initial exuberant response to teriparatide.
The aim of the study was to examine blood pressure and biochemical responses to unilateral adrenalectomy in patients with bilateral primary aldosteronism (PA) and identify predictive parameters.
The aims of the study were to characterize sexual development and reproductive hormones in PWS males and investigate the etiology of hypogonadism.
We performed this study to test the hypothesis that variation in the lamin a/c gene (LMNA) contributes to milder phenotypes of insulin resistance, hyperandrogenism, and/or metabolic syndrome associated with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
The objective of the study was to explore parameters contributing to glucose homeostasis in a cross-sectional study of first-degree relatives across a wide age range.
The main objective was to examine the association between serum testosterone and estradiol and all-cause mortality in elderly men.
The objective of the present study was to investigate the individual influence of fat mass and lean mass on volumetric bone density and size in young healthy male siblings at age of peak bone mass.
The aim of the study was to examine the influence on human appetite of the meal size and its nutrient content or changes in energy availability and concentrations of ghrelin, leptin, and insulin.
We investigated the osteoclastogenic potential of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 18 children with 21-OHD on cGC therapy and 25 controls who never received GCs. We also evaluated the presence of circulating osteoclast precursors (OCPs) and the role of T cells in osteoclast formation.
This study was undertaken to examine the potential additive anabolic effects of rhGH + rhIGF-I compared with rhIGF-I.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the rate of vertebral fractures (VFs) by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry in postmenopausal women with sporadic PHPT and compare the results with a control group.
The aim of the study was to assess bone density and associated risk factors for reduced bone density in young, estrogen-deficient women using primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) as the disease model.
The objective of these studies was to determine whether progesterone receptor membrane component-1 (PGRMC1) mediates P4's actions.
The aim of the study was to clarify the relationship between BOLL and CDC25A expressions in human testes and to explore the mechanism by which BOLL regulates CDC25A.
We hypothesized a nongenetic influence of birth weight (BW) and twin and zygosity status on dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry determined adult total and regional body composition and a quantitative equal, although independent, importance of adult body composition and BW for insulin sensitivity.
We hypothesized that mAchR mutations may cause a subset of familial IGHD.
The aims of the study were: 1) to report a novel HADH gene mutation not associated with abnormal acylcarnitine or urinary organic acid profile; and 2) to report the novel observation of severe protein-sensitive HH in three patients with HADH gene mutations.
The aim of the study was to examine clinical characteristics, biochemical parameters, and TSH-R gene variations in children and adolescents with subclinical hypothyroidism (SH) in order to evaluate their pattern of distribution in SH.
The aim was to study the risk of overweight and the metabolic syndrome in adult offspring of women with diet-treated gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) or type 1 diabetes, and additionally to study associations between estimates of maternal hyperglycemia and outcome in the offspring.
HNF1B-maturity-onset diabetes of the young is caused by abnormalities in the HNF1B gene encoding the transcription factor HNF-1beta. We aimed to investigate detailed clinical features and the type of HNF1B gene anomaly in five pediatric cases with HNF1B-MODY.
To generate a descriptive theory framework regarding the experiences of sleep disturbances among perimenopausal women in Taiwan.
To test the effectiveness of an efficacy-enhancing educational intervention to promote women's self-efficacy for childbirth and coping ability in reducing anxiety and pain during labour.
To examine the effects of Meridian acupressure on the functions of affected upper extremities, activity of daily living and depression for stroke patients.
To evaluate the effect of bed rest with music on relaxation for patients who have undergone heart surgery on postoperative day one.
To describe the attitudes toward and the use of folk remedies among caregivers of children who were hospitalised in Taiwan.
To identify the effects of applying Progressive Muscle Relaxation Technique on Quality of Life of patients with multiple Sclerosis.
To assess the effect of distraction (looking through kaleidoscopes) to reduce perceived pain, during venipuncture in healthy school-age children.
The objective of this study was to examine the efficacy of progressive muscle relaxation training on anxiety in patients with acute schizophrenia.
This study aims to investigate the prevalence of disability, factors influencing disability and pain self-management techniques employed by older arthritis patients in Taiwan.
To describe patients' experiences of counselling, defined as information giving and advice by nursing staff, in the emergency department. A particular focus was on the waiting period and on the importance of family participation in counselling.
This article explores relatives' experiences of receiving soft tissue massage as a support supplement while caring for a dying family member at home.
To examine the predictive effects of illness perception on adherence to therapeutic regimens of patients with hypertension.
The aims of this study were: (i) to determine the types of complementary and alternative medicine use among children with type I diabetes mellitus as reported by parents and (ii) to describe sociodemographic and medical factors associated with the use of such treatments in families residing in Eastern Turkey.
To examine herbal product use among patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing haemodialysis.
This study has investigated older people's experiences of a recent fall, its impact on their health, lifestyle, quality of life, care networks, prevention and their views on service use.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the meaning of feeling well for people with moderate or severe traumatic brain injury.
The purpose of the study was to explore the issues surrounding chronic hepatitis C, combination therapy and its impact on personal relationships to enhance understanding of the experiences of patients living with hepatitis C. This paper focuses on the experiences of the patients and their partners' experiences will be published separately.
This paper reports the qualitative findings from a mixed methods study which explored patients' understandings of perceived control in relation to their self care during chemotherapy for colorectal cancer.
To estimate the frequency of intraoperative anxiety, the influence of environmental factors on intraoperative anxiety and to study the relationship between intraoperative anxiety and generalised anxiety and depression.
The aim of the study was to investigate the relationships of health literacy to chronic medical conditions and the functional health status among community-dwelling Korean older adults.
To explore nurses' attitudes towards perinatal bereavement care and to identify factors associated with these attitudes.
To understand staff acceptance of a remote video monitoring system for operating room (OR) coordination.
To investigate nursing students' knowledge, attitude and readiness to work for clients with sexual health concerns and to identify strategies to help students develop as they take up their role in sexual health-related care.
To explore the attitudes of staff caring for institutionalised dementia residents and the variables associated with these attitudes.
To explore the one-year poststroke trajectories in health-related quality of life and physical function in a sample of older stroke patients in Taiwan.
To explore the nurse-patient interaction in terminally ill situations in acute care, focusing on the nurses' preparation for loss.
The purpose of this longitudinal correlative study was to explore the degree, compare the differences and to detect the relationships of uncertainty, social support and psychological adjustment for older cancer patients who were undergoing surgery.
To investigate undergraduate student nurses' and registered nurses' attitudes towards obese persons and towards the management of obese patients.
To introduce a synthesised technique for using grounded theory in nursing research.
To compare identification rates of inappropriate prescribing in elderly patients in primary care using two validated screening tools: Beers' criteria and improved prescribing in the elderly tool (IPET); to calculate the net ingredient cost (NIC) per month (euro) of the potentially inappropriate medicines in this population of patients.
To estimate the prevalence of potentially severe drug-drug interactions (DDIs) and their relationship with age, sex and number of prescribed drugs.
Symptomatic medications are often not considered in clinical studies assessing interventions to reduce prescribing of antibiotics for acute respiratory tract infections (ARTI). Our study objectives were to examine prescribing patterns of antibiotics and symptomatic medications for ARTI in Swiss primary care and to monitor pharmacists' interventions during the prescription-dispensing process.
The aim was to conduct a national cross-sectional survey of randomly selected Australian pharmacists to determine their attitudes towards and involvement in pharmacy practice research. This included the canvassing of perceived barriers and potential solutions to promote research activity in pharmacy practice.
The study aimed to investigate the clinical impact of pharmacist-physician co-managed programme on the management of hyperlipidaemia.
To characterize the relationship between total and unbound concentrations of valproic acid (VPA) in epileptic neonates and infants, the clinical examination records of those patients archived via therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) activities were retrospectively analyzed.
To investigate the effect of freezing, microwave thawing and long-term storage at 5 +/- 3 degrees C on the stability of calcium levofolinate in 5% dextrose solution.
The aim of this study was to determine the frequencies of CYP1A2 gene polymorphisms, analyze Linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks and haplotypes in a Korean population, and compare them with those in African, European, Japanese and Chinese populations.
CYP2C19 is clinically important in Korea because of the relatively high incidence of poor metabolizers in the population. To fully understand the genetic mechanism of the CYP2C19 defect in poor metabolizers, all variants need to be studied simultaneously. The aim of this study was to investigate the usefulness of CYP2C19 haplotypes as a marker of CYP2C19 enzyme activity in Koreans.
We sought to determine whether allelic variants in the human PAFAH gene (Arg92His, Ile198Thr, and Ala379Val) contribute to variability in PAF-AH activity in patient plasma obtained within 72 h of ARDS diagnosis.
Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors can induce chronic cough in many patients. Genetic variations in the neurokinin 2 receptor gene (NK2R) are significantly associated with cough sensitivity to capsaicin.
Renal function was estimated in 129 elderly patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) who were treated with vancomycin (VCM). The estimation was performed by substituting serum creatinine (SCR) measured enzymatically and a value converted using the Jaffe method into the Cockcroft-Gault and Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equations. The serum trough level was predicted from three estimates of renal function by the population mean (PM) and Bayesian methods and the predictability was assessed.
To describe the population pharmacokinetics of vancomycin in patients with gram-positive infections and to investigate the influence of type of infectious disease.
This study considered the influence of the nerve-sparing procedure on early recovery of urinary continence after laparoscopic radical prostatectomy according to preoperative erectile function.
To evaluate the diagnostic feasibility and reproducibility of immediate postcryoablation biopsies of small renal masses.
To examine the educational value of URO Mentor, a virtual reality simulator for endourologic procedures, by establishing its face and content validity.
To evaluate prospectively the actual bladder perforation incidence during transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURB) performed by residents and to identify possible predisposing factors to such condition.
To compare the outcomes of hand-assisted laparoscopic bilateral nephroureterectomy (HALBNU) for dialysis and kidney transplant patients with clinically localized upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma (UUT-UC) with those achieved by open bilateral nephroureterectomy (OBNU).
TURis((R)) is an emerging technique that shows the same efficacy of monopolar resection. However, there is currently little available data on the safety of bipolar devices. We assessed outcome and safety of TURis on a large cohort of patients with at least 6 months' follow-up.
To investigate whether melatonin (MLT) treatment has any protective effect on unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO)-induced kidney injury in rats.
Endoscopic treatment of large bladder stones via cystoscope is still bothersome, and open cystolithotomy is the preferred method in many centers. To gain more insight into the endoscopic bladder stone management, we aimed to compare the transurethral use of nephroscope and cystoscope randomly.
The aim of this study was to investigate the deleterious effects of shockwaves (SWs) using heat shock protein (HSP) 70 expression on obstructed kidneys with different obstruction periods.
In this study we aimed to determine the effects of previous open renal surgery on the results and complications of subsequent percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL).
Small, incidental renal masses are increasingly discovered in elderly patients with comorbid disease, such as chronic renal insufficiency (CRI). Observation of these masses or nephron-sparing surgery is the standard of care for these patients if possible. Laparoscopic renal cryotherapy (LRC) has been shown to be equivalent to laparoscopic partial nephrectomy in short-term follow-up for management of these masses. We evaluated the effect of LRC in this subset of patients and compared it with the effect in a group of patients who were undergoing the same procedure and who had normal renal function.
To report the outcomes of patients with ureteroenteric strictures after ileal conduit urinary diversion that were managed with Resonance metallic ureteral stents.
Proof-of-principle in vitro experiments evaluated a prototype ultrasound technology to size kidney stone fragments.
Long-term use of ureteral stents is prevented by biofilm-related infection and encrustation mandating stent changes every few months. Triclosan is a broad-spectrum antimicrobial in numerous consumer and medical products and has been incorporated into a ureteral stent. We sought to determine the clinical effects of the triclosan-eluting stent in patients who needed long-term ureteral stenting.
The introduction and continuous development of percutaneous nephrolithotomy, the achievement of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, and the advancements in ureterorenoscopy have led to a revolution in the interventional management urolithiasis. The indications for open stone surgery have been narrowed significantly making it a second- or third-line treatment option. We report on patients undergoing open stone surgery for nephrolithiasis in our department during the last 10 years to examine our indications at a primary urolithiasis center and to determine the clinical situations in which open surgery is a reasonable alternative.
Transabdominal transvesical repair has been the standard management for difficult vesicovaginal fistulae as a result of obstetric and gynecologic surgery. We describe a laparoscopic transvesical technique that minimizes operative morbidity.
To demonstrate the validity and reliability of volumetric quantitative computed tomography (vQCT) with multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT) and dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) for hip bone mineral density (BMD) measurements, and to compare the differences between the two techniques in discriminating postmenopausal women with osteoporosis-related vertebral fractures from those without.
To directly examine the effects of carnosine on neuronal excitation and inhibition in rat hippocampus in vivo.
The age-related change is important part of degenerative disc disease. However, no appropriate animal model or objective evaluation index is available. This study aimed to investigate the features of intervertebral disc degeneration in aging process of rats.
This study is to determine the effect of the natural product parthenolide, a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from extracts of the herb Tanacetum parthenium, on the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs).
To investigate gender difference in the effects of daytime sleep on item and source memories, which are dissociable elements of declarative memory, and the effects of sleep on recollection and familiarity, which are two processes underlying recognition.
To explore clinical and laboratory features and significance of detecting serum carbohydrate antigen 125 (CA125) in immunoglobulin E (IgE) multiple myeloma.
To determine outcomes and time to recovery in patients treated with tubular diskectomy compared with conventional microdiskectomy.
To examine the effects of a 2-dose and 2 + 1-dose PCV-7 schedule on nasopharyngeal pneumococcal carriage in young children compared with controls.
To identify common genetic variants associated with cardiac structure and function by conducting a meta-analysis of genome-wide association data in 5 population-based cohort studies (stage 1) with replication (stage 2) in 2 other community-based samples.
To systematically review prospective studies of the association of plasma adiponectin levels and risk of type 2 diabetes.
The aim of this study was to investigate bone protective effects of risedronate, atorvastatin, raloxifene and clomiphene citrate in ovariectomized rats.
To examine patterns of use of hormone therapy (HT), including duration of use, in North Norway in 1996, 2002 and 2005.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of 52 weeks of DHEA 50mg daily oral dose given to postmenopausal women with low libido to improve sexual function.
To describe the distribution of intima-media thickness (IMT) and the prevalence of plaque by carotid segments, walls and sides, and to examine their associated risk factors in asymptomatic, early postmenopausal Chinese women in Hong Kong.
Investigating women's knowledge, attitude and practice in relation to menopause and systemic hormone therapy (HT) through a sample survey implemented within the preliminary works for the Consensus Conference "Informing women on hormone replacement therapy" that took place in Turin in May 2008 [Available at www.partecipasalute.it. Last access 7/8/2008].
Adipositas and insulin resistance are modifiable risk factors for breast cancer. Adiponectin seems to be an important linkage of these associations. In this study, we investigated the relationship between intratumoral adiponectin receptor expression and insulin resistance as well as intratumoral insulin/IGF receptor expression in breast cancer specimen.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the addition of the measurement of bilateral hip bone mineral density (BMD) has an impact on indications for osteoporosis (OP) treatment in community-dwelling elderly individuals, based on criteria from the National Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF).
The clearance rate of inhaled 99mTc-sestamibi from the lungs of healthy nonsmoking individuals is much slower than would be expected from its physical properties. The clearance rate is even slower in healthy cigarette smokers. As 99mTc-sestamibi is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp), pulmonary P-gp may be influential in 99mTc-sestamibi clearance and may be upregulated in smokers. 99mTc-tetrofosmin is also a substrate for P-gp, therefore we hypothesized that it would display similar kinetics to 99mTc-sestamibi and support a role for P-gp. We also hypothesized that administration of P-gp modulators would accelerate clearance of 99mTc-sestamibi.
We sought to compare delayed-enhancement MRI (DE-MRI) with 99mTc-sestamibi and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for the assessment of myocardial viability.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET (FDG-PET) and FDG-PET/computed tomography (CT) in the detection of recurrent or metastatic differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) that was not identified by radioiodine whole-body scintigraphy (WBS).
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of quantitative imaging of glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography (PET) using kinetic analysis for differentiating between high-grade glioma and central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma.
To develop methods for absolute quantification of the deposition of 99mTc-labeled aerosols and powders in well-defined anatomical regions of the nose, and to enable accurate comparisons of different nasal administration techniques in the same individual.
Quantitative gated single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) (QGS), Emory Cardiac toolbox (ECTb), layer of maximum count (LMC), and left ventricular global thickening fraction (LVGTF) are four different methods designed to estimate the LV ejection fraction (EF). The third method (LMC) is relatively new and achieved good results in preliminary investigations. Thus, the objective of the study was to further assess the performance of the LMC versus two-dimensional echocardiography in the estimation of the LVEF in comparison with other methods.
To evaluate the expression of glucose transporters (Gluts) 1 and 3 in Hodgkin and nonHodgkin lymphoma and to assess the association between their expression and the tumor intensity on 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET).
The authors investigate the efficacy of using the cytokine levels and clonal heavy-chain immunoglobulin (IgH) gene rearrangements in the vitreous as adjunctive tools to diagnose intraocular lymphoma (IOL).
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the predisposing risk factors and treatment outcomes of endogenous fungal endophthalmitis (EFE).
To investigate the management, bacterial strains, antibiotic sensitivities, and visual outcomes in patients with Klebsiella pneumoniae pneumonia and endogenous Klebsiella endophthalmitis.
To report criteria for the diagnosis of intraocular sarcoidosis, taking into account suggestive clinical signs and appropriate laboratory investigations and biopsy results.
To determine the type of ocular involvement in patients with neurosarcoidosis, and evaluate whether the type of eye involvement may help in the diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis.
To assess the value of fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET) in patients with unexplained chronic uveitis.
To evaluate the control of ocular inflammation and the steroid sparing effect in patients with sarcoidosis-associated uveitis treated with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).
To report a case of anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) associated with the combined therapy of pegylated interferon alpha (PEG-IFNalpha) and ribavirin.
To determine the effect of intravitreal anakinra on choroidal neovascularization (CNV) in an animal model.
The clinical findings and outcomes of 12 cases of luetic uveitis are reported.
To report intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA)-induced unmasking of ocular syphilis.
To determine vitreous concentrations of triamcinolone acetonide(TA) following transseptal injection.
To present a case with idiopathic neuroretinitis that was treated with combined intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone.
To characterize the pattern of serum biochemical markers of central nervous system injury (neuron-specific enolase [NSE], S-100B, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 [PAI-1]) after pediatric cardiac arrest and determine whether there is an association between biomarker concentrations and neurologic outcome.
There is a commonly held belief that randomized, placebo-controlled trials in pediatric critical care should incorporate "rescue" therapy (open-label administration of active drug) when a child's condition is deteriorating. The ethical, conceptual, and analytic challenges related to rescue therapy in randomized trials can be misrepresented.
To provide a descriptive summary of mechanical component failure associated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), and to examine patient and ECMO variables that may be associated with mechanical component failure and guide further study. We hypothesized that duration of ECMO, era of ECMO, indication for ECMO, age of patient, and center ECMO volume would be associated with mechanical component failure.
To examine the impact of acute care management on outcome in children severely injured in road accidents.
To identify risk factors for central line-associated bloodstream infection (BSI) in patients receiving care in a pediatric cardiac intensive care unit.
To test the safety and efficacy of an enteral feeding algorithm in infants with HLHS following stage I palliation.
To determine whether levels of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, and oxidative parameters in umbilical cord blood could contribute as an indicator of neonatal sepsis in recognized high-risk neonates.
To characterize the eligible pediatric donor pool in the United States by age, consent rate, location, and cause of donor loss.
To determine which flow setting most accurately detects the lower inflection point (Pflex) using an automated constant flow method and varying endotracheal tube (ETT) sizes with and without an airleak in a pediatric lung model.
Intravenous (IV) levetiracetam (LEV) is approved for use in patients older than 16 years and may be useful in critically ill children, although there is little data available regarding pharmacokinetics. We aim to investigate the safety, an appropriate dosing, and efficacy of IV LEV in critically ill children.
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) to aid failed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in children is associated with a high incidence of neurologic injury. We sought to identify risk factors for acute neurologic injury in children undergoing ECMO to aid CPR (E-CPR).
To compare in the pediatric, cardiac, and neonatal intensive care units, three methods of assessing vancomycin and linezolid drug use density by number of: defined daily doses (DDDs), prescribed daily doses, and days of drug use per 100 patient days.
To report the first case of congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) presenting with severe cor pulmonale in an adolescent.
Case reports of two patients with unusually late initial presentation of chronic granulomatous disease with fulminant Aspergillus pneumonia.
To report a rare case of an entrapped subclavian venous catheter and to describe an anatomically based maneuver to remove it.
To review important articles, in the field of pediatric neurointensive care, that were published subsequent to the fourth edition of the Rogers' Textbook of Pediatric Intensive Care.
The study aimed to explore by means of single-trial event-related potentials (ERPs), whether and how the medication change from older neuroleptics to quetiapine in schizophrenic patients led to a significant cognitive enhancement. This single-trial ERP analysis helps to investigate attention and memory processes in the single patient before and after treatment.
The aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of olanzapine- and valproate-treated patients in an observational study of acute mania with the results of a randomised controlled trial (RCT) assessing the same treatments.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has been thought to have strong genetic background, but major contributing genes or associated molecular-genetic pathways are yet to be identified. To explore the idiopathic ASD-associated copy number variations (CNVs), we conducted case-control study using whole-genome copy number analysis.
To investigate whether genetic polymorphisms are the underlying causes for aberrations in folate pathway that was reported in autistic children.
We wanted to investigate the presence of GCLM true functional mutations, likely in linkage disequilibrium with the previously identified single nucleotide polymorphism alleles, in the same set of cases that allowed the detection of the original association signal.
To examine the perceived level of occupational stress and burnout of radiologic science educators.
To review the literature and identify key components needed to prevent shootings at higher education institutions in the United States, and in particular, institutions housing radiologic science programs.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of in-office vitreous sampling (50-100 microL).
To investigate the effect of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes in the genes encoding age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2 (LOC387715/ARMS2) and high-temperature requirement A-1 (HTRA1) in a case-control study in a Chinese cohort of individuals with exudative age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
To describe the visual outcomes 2 years after photodynamic therapy in Japanese patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) with or without polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) lesions.
To examine the clinical outcomes and the effect of treatment in patients with acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin, Genentech) for the treatment of macular edema (ME) secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) and hemiretinal vein occlusion (HRVO).
To evaluate the safety and effect of bevacizumab pretreatment on the incidence of recurrent vitreous hemorrhage and visual acuity after vitrectomy for proliferative diabetic retinopathy.
To investigate the efficacy of intravenous thrombolysis with low-dose recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in recent-onset central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) or branch retinal vein occlusion.
To evaluate the early rate of change of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central retinal sensitivity, neuroretinal and choroidal thickness in patients with macular edema after 1.25 mg/0.05 ml intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin; Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA).
To evaluate the efficacy of single-session photodynamic therapy (PDT) combined with intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) in the treatment of retinal angiomatous proliferation (RAP) in age-related macular degeneration.
To assess whether the transient intraocular pressure rise, frequent intraocular pressure fluctuations, or antivascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) effects of repeated intravitreal injection of anti-VEGF agents can lead to changes in the optic nerve vertical cup-to-disk ratio (C/D).
To evaluate whether complement Factor P (properdin) was present in surgically removed choroidal neovascular membranes of patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and to investigate whether associated pre- and postoperative clinical characteristics can be correlated.
To compare macular thickness measurements using time-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) and Fourier-domain OCT.
To evaluate the appearance of cuticular drusen with spectral domain optical coherence tomography.
To use preferential hyperacuity perimetry to obtain a quantitative measure of central visual field distortion that would aid in the monitoring of functional responsiveness to ranibizumab treatment.
The purpose of this study was to report the clinical presentation, causative organisms, antibiotic sensitivities, management, and visual acuity outcomes in patients with endophthalmitis caused by Proteus species at a university teaching hospital over a 24-year period.
To analyze the retinal structure underlying the hyperautofluorescent ring visible on fundus autofluorescence in patients with retinitis pigmentosa.
The goal of this study was to see how the availability of ranibizumab affected the referral patterns for low vision (LV) evaluation.
This study compares the population and repair ability of bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in experimental colitis (EC) rat model after allogeneic stem-cell transplantation (SCT).
To explore the effects of Western medicine including Ca(2+) channel antagonist and angiotensin-receptor antagonist combined with Songling Xuemaikang Capsule (SXC), a compound traditional Chinese herbal medicine for calming liver and suppressing liver yang, on blood pressure indexes derived from 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), and to evaluate the effects and stability of SXC in lowering blood pressure.
To study the effects of Xuesaitong Injection, an extract from a Chinese herbal medicine, on coagulation function of gastric cancer patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery.
To observe the effects of a Chinese compound herbal medicine for reinforcing qi, activating blood circulation, expelling phlegm and dredging collaterals in treatment of lower limb arteriosclerosis.
To compare the distribution characteristics of common syndrome types and syndrome elements of menopause syndrome in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women on the basis of standardized syndrome differentiation extracted by experts' experiences.
To observe the cerebral activating effects of needling at Waiguan (SJ5) versus SJ5 plus Yanglingquan (GB34) points in young healthy volunteers based on the hypothesis of "needling effect of combined acupuncture points relates to the brain activation".
To explore the function of Bushen Kangshuai Tang (BKT), a compound traditional Chinese herbal medicine, in alleviating oxidative stress-induced reproductive defects in organism nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.
To study the anti-inflammatory effects of the combinations of active components of Painong powder, a compound traditional Chinese herbal medicine, and the quantitative analysis of their interactions.
To explore the effects of Qushi Huayu Decoction (QSHYD), a compound traditional Chinese herbal medicine, in prevention and treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in rats.
To study the effects of Liangxue Jiedu Decoction, a compound traditional Chinese herbal medicine with the function of blood-cooling and detoxicating, in treating psoriasis in mice and to explore its mechanism.
To investigate the effects of catechin on angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity, angiotensin II(Ang II) content and microvessel density (MVD) in renal tissues of 5/6 nephrectomized rats.
To compare the varieties and contents of the main nerval information molecules in perfusate from hypothalamic medial preoptic area (MPOA) of the rats in different sexual cycles and the ovariectomized rats treated by electro-acupuncture, so as to observe the similarities and differences of hypothalamic neuroendocrine signal transduction pathway under the physiological and pathological status, and to explore the mechanisms of neuroendocrine signal transduction of electro-acupuncture therapeutic effect in perimenopausal syndrome.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-delta is a novel isoform that differs in its C-terminal sequence from other GFAP isoforms. Previous studies suggest restriction of expression to the subpial layer, subventricular zone and the subgranular zone astrocytes, with an absence in pathological conditions causing reactive gliosis. GFAP-delta is speculated to have roles in regulation of astrocyte size and motility and a subpopulation of GFAP-delta-positive glia may be multipotent stem cells. The aim of this study was to investigate its expression in common causes of lesion-related refractory epilepsy.
Laparoscopy may lower the mortality and morbidity rates of Hartmann's procedure reversal. However, it remains a challenging operation mainly due to adhesions of the small bowel and to the rectal stump.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and irreversible disease. There is strong evidence that the progression of the phospho-tau neurofibrillary cytoskeletal changes, rather than the beta-amyloid burden, is crucial in determining the severity of the dementia in AD. The Braak and Braak staging system (BB) focuses mainly on the cortical cytoskeletal pathology and classifies this progressive pathology into six stages, spreading from the transentorhinal region to primary cortices. Although it is reported elsewhere that the midbrain's dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), which is connected with those areas of the cerebral cortex undergoing early changes during BB I and II, exhibits AD-related cytoskeletal pathology, this nucleus has not been considered by the BB.
The ability of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) to home to sites of neoangiogenesis makes them attractive candidates for use in the field of gene therapy. The efficacy of this approach depends on the efficiency of the vector used for transgene delivery.
To investigate differences in 12-month prevalences of mental disorders and 12-month treatment contact among New Zealand born and migrants in separate ethnic groups in Te Rau Hinengaro: The New Zealand Mental Health Survey (NZMHS).
This exploratory study investigates Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) rehabilitation outcomes among culturally diverse outpatients in community-based rehabilitation who have sustained a Mild to Moderate TBI. The major aims of this study are twofold: firstly, to determine whether community-based rehabilitation outcomes following TBI differ across Măori, Pacific and Pakeha cultures; and secondly, to identify any service delivery needs Pacific people in TBI rehabilitation require that may be distinct from Pakeha.
The PIF study aimed to determine: (1) the prevalence of disciplinary and nurturing parenting practices used with children at 12 months of age, and (2) the demographic, maternal and lifestyle factors associated with parenting practices.
This paper describes and compares alcohol consumption and drinking patterns for Pacific ethnic groups (Samoan, Tongan, Niue, Cook Islands) and European New Zealanders by gender participating in the 2002-03 Diabetes Heart and Health Study (DHAHS).
To show the 12 month prevalences of mental disorders, 12-month treatment contact and use of mental health services among Cook islanders resident in New Zealand.
The aim of this paper is to discuss and examine the social, cultural and medicinal kava use amongst twelve Tongan born men living in Auckland, New Zealand.
The aim of this paper is to look at the binge drinking behaviours of nine New Zealand born Niuean women living in Auckland.
Time to defibrillation (t(defib)) directly correlates with survival from cardiac arrest. We investigated whether automated external defibrillators (AED) in a combat setting would improve this crucial variable.
to evaluate the treatment of the acute coronary syndrome (ACS) among soldiers stationed on a theater of operations by structures usually conceived to treat combat-related trauma.
to explore the underlying mechanism of MDH and to assess the correlation between such tests and autoimmune diseases (AD).
to compare PM1, PM2,5 and PM10 levels in and outside the restricted area before and after the enforcement of the charging scheme.
to describe the mortality profile of the population resident in the polluted area of national concern (SIN) "Laguna di Grado e Marano" Friuli-Venezia-Giulia region, in the period 1997-2001 and to examine mortality temporal trends between 1981 and 2001.
to estimate the spatial distribution of risk, in order to assess its correlation to environmental pollution exposure around the large production facilities located in the Taranto area, and to identify high risk areas not previously reported.
to evaluate the association of different phenotypes with sun sensitivity factors, sun protection behavior and ethnicity in school-age children.
To determine if sex associated differences exist in presentation and survival of patients undergoing resection for early stage nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
To describe case reports of a brother and sister pair with Hurthle cell carcinoma of thyroid.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether GuttaFlow and a single GP cone would produce an effective seal.
The purpose of this study was to determine how different P/L ratios influence the flexural strength (FS) of a glass fibre reinforced autopolymerizing PMMA resin used for fabricating fixed partial dentures.
Breast cancer mortality has declined, yet disease outcomes have not improved equally across populations. Disparities may initiate early in the continuum of care, in health behavior patterns, and screening practices. We examined variations in mammography, exercise, fruit and vegetable intake, alcohol consumption, and body mass index (BMI, kg/m2) by age and race in a diverse sample of clinic patients.
To review the current status of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in African American women compared to Caucasian women in regards to 4 categories of CVD: coronary artery disease (CAD), hypertension, stroke, and congestive heart failure (CHF), and to call attention to the need to place more emphasis on the need to increase awareness of CVD as the greatest killer of African American females in the United States.
The purpose of this study was to determine factors associated with cervical cancer screening compliance and noncompliance among Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, and Cambodian women aged 18 years and older.
To evaluate fetal outcome for the various indications for cesarean section.
The association between underweight and stillbirth remains poorly defined, especially across racial/ethnic sub-populations. We investigate the association of pre-pregnancy underweight on the risk for early and late stillbirth among black and white mothers.
The aim of this study was to determine the incidence, sociodemographic parameters, and outcome of surgical repairs of obstetric fistula in our center.
To understand African American patients' opinions as to barriers to hypertension treatment.
To investigate the clinical efficacy of linear frequency transposition (LFT) for a group of school-age children.
To present a case study in order to alert clinicians to the possibility of occurrence of intermodulation distortion during otoacoustic emissions testing that arises from the cavity formed by the external auditory meatus and tympanic membrane rather than from the inner ear, compromising the reliability and validity of otoacoustic emissions testing.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the standard FST and a head shaking variation for identification of a peripheral vestibular system lesion.
The aim of this study was to use validated self-report measures in a consecutive sample of CI patients who reported tinnitus in order to determine the extent of tinnitus handicap.
The primary purpose of this study was to determine whether supplementing prefitting counseling with demonstration of real-world listening can (1) alter expectations of new hearing aid users and (2) increase satisfaction over verbal-only counseling. Secondary goals of the study were to examine (1) the relationship between prefitting expectations and postfitting outcome, and (2) the effect of hearing aid fine-tuning on hearing aid outcome.
To establish the pre-vaccination distribution of HPV genotypes in Slovenian women with CIN 3 lesions, in order to assess the potential benefit of prophylactic HPV vaccination in Slovenia, and to provide baseline data for monitoring the potential replacement of HPV genotypes under selective pressure of HPV vaccines.
Chronic skin diseases have been recognized as having a detrimental effect on patients' quality of life, also causing considerable mental discomfort. Reduced self-acceptance, low self-esteem, a negative body image, and a low sense of self-worth have been noted in patients with visible skin disorders. Yet in the available literature we could not find any data concerning the relationship between mental health status, self-image, and quality of life. This research, then, analyzes potential relationships between self-acceptance, mental health status, and quality of life in dermatology patients.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of erysipelas and lymphangitis in a group of patients under treatment for lymphedema after breast-cancer therapy.
We explored the relationship between the preparedness of master of public health (MPH) graduates in public health law and ethics and their completion of courses in these areas.
We evaluated the effects of tax increases on alcoholic beverages in 1983 and 2002 on alcohol-related disease mortality in Alaska.
We examined the roles of gender and poverty in cigarette use and nicotine dependence among adults in the United States.
We sought to determine whether failure to locate hard-to-reach respondents in longitudinal studies causes biased and inaccurate study results.
We assessed the prevalence of antituberculosis drug resistance among children with tuberculosis (TB) in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.
We analyzed the response of the Chicago Department of Public Health with respect to its effectiveness in providing health care to Hurricane Katrina evacuees arriving in the city.
We investigated the extent to which the political economy of US states, including the relative power of organized labor, predicts rates of fatal occupational injury.
We assessed the effectiveness of various systems of community participation in ethical review of environmental health research.
We used 37 years of follow-up data from a randomized controlled trial to explore the linkage between an early educational intervention and adult health.
We describe the lifetime prevalence and associated health-related concerns of family homelessness among fifth-grade students.
I assessed air pollution, ventilation, and nonsmokers' risk from secondhand smoke (SHS) in Pennsylvania casinos exempted from a statewide smoke-free workplace law.
We assessed the effectiveness of a 5-year trial of a comprehensive school-based program designed to prevent substance use, violent behaviors, and sexual activity among elementary-school students.
We evaluated the prevalence and nature of housing problems among adolescents leaving foster care because of their age to provide evidence that can inform public and programmatic policies designed to prevent homelessness.
We tested the hypothesis that sickness absence from work predicts workers' risk of later depression.
We sought to identify correlates of reported lifetime diagnoses of TB among injection drug users in the border city of Tijuana, Mexico.
We assessed how different patterns of housing instability affect incarceration and whether correlates of incarceration are gender specific.
We used the Atrocities Documentation Survey to determine whether Sudanese government forces were involved in racially targeting sexual victimization toward ethnically African women in the Darfur region of western Sudan.
We sought to gain a better understanding of the relationship between learning disabilities, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and risk of occupational injury among young workers.
We investigated the relationship between women's first-trimester working conditions and infant birthweight.
We measured noise levels associated with various forms of mass transit and compared them to exposure guidelines designed to protect against noise-induced hearing loss.
Reports on extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) production by Enterobacteriaceae, and especially in Klebsiella pneumoniae, are few in Saudi Arabia. Therefore, we determined the prevalence of ESBL in K pneumoniae from Riyadh and characterized the predominant beta-lactamase gene in these isolates.
Specialty care has been used to manage individual patients at the discretion of generalists but not to drive improvements at the population level.
To assess the WTP and the QoL of patients with vitiligo.
To assess the safety of the THERAKOS CELLEX system to provide ECP for patients with CTCL.
To analyse the impact of objective and psychological factors on the quality of life (QoL) and self-body image of patients with vitiligo.
To identify the species of B. burgdorferi complex responsible for BL in France.
To present an open pilot study of a low-irradiance, potentially disposable, lightweight, organic light-emitting diode (OLED), which is an area-emitting light source (2 cm diameter), suitable for ambulatory PDT.
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of LL-37 in lesional skin compared with nonlesional skin in patients with different severity of AE, patients with other eczema and healthy subjects.
To obtain simultaneously microscopic images and spectra of collagen and elastin fibres in ex vivo skin tissues (normal skin and hypertrophic scar) using a nonlinear spectral imaging method, and to compare the morphological structure and spectral characteristics of collagen and elastin fibres in hypertrophic scar tissues with those of normal skin, to determine whether this approach has potential for in vivo assessment of the pathophysiology of human hypertrophic scars and for monitoring treatment responses as well as for tracking the process of development of hypertrophic scars in clinic.
We determined the presence and distribution of the major AMPs, RNase 7 and psoriasin (S100A7), in human scalp HFs. We investigated whether HF production of these AMPs was induced by prototypic microbial products and proinflammatory cytokines, i.e. interferon (IFN)-gamma. Finally, we examined whether the classical pathways for AMP induction, such as toll-like receptor (TLR)4 and TLR5 expression, are present in human HFs and up-regulated after stimulation with bacterium-associated ligands.
To evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic significance of these markers in a large group of cutaneous CD30-positive lymphoproliferations.
The aim of this study was to explore whether MBL2 structural and promoter polymorphisms are associated with generalized vitiligo in Gujarat where the prevalence of vitiligo is alarmingly high.
To investigate the reproducibility of ordinal scales depicting four skin ageing features illustrated by reference photographs.
We sought to assess the presence of betaPV in NMSC biopsies from a group of Scottish skin cancer patients, both immunocompetent (IC) patients and immunosuppressed (IS) organ transplant recipients.
The purpose of this study was: (i) to examine physiological changes in lesional (L) skin of acute eczematous AD, compared with nonlesional (NL) AD skin and healthy (H) skin, using sequential tewametry and SC protein analysis to estimate SC thickness; and (ii) to assess which serine proteases might be involved in pathogenesis.
To evaluate the number of patients younger than 18 years with primary CBCL diagnosed at our centre and to investigate its clinicopathological features, treatment and course in this age group.
To compare the efficacy and safety of once-daily treatment with a combination of calcipotriol 50 microg g(-1) plus betamethasone 0.5 mg g(-1) (as dipropionate) (Xamiol; LEO Pharma A/S, Ballerup, Denmark) and twice-daily calcipotriol 50 microg mL(-1) scalp solution in patients with scalp psoriasis.
To analyse histopathologically the ichthyosiform eruptions associated with cutaneous lymphomas.
To collate the experience and views of U.K. dermatology trainees on the three workplace assessments.
Our aim was to investigate the relationship between variation over time in the patch test and the systemic T-cell reactivity to nickel.
The present study analyses prognostic factors of MCC.
To determine the prevalence of warts in primary schoolchildren and to examine the relation with environmental factors in order to provide direction for well-founded recommendations on wart prevention.
This study investigated whether the decrease could be confirmed among women in the general population. Furthermore, it addressed the morbidity of FM I sensitization.
To explore the activity and histopathological outcomes among different groups of dermatological surgeons dealing with skin cancers.
The aims of this study were: (i) to examine the effects of ibuprofen on the major proinflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha induction of migration of C8161 and HBL human melanoma cells; (ii) to develop ibuprofen-releasing hydrogels (Pluronics F127) for future topical use in reducing metastatic spread of primary melanoma; and (iii) to examine whether the actions of ibuprofen might be explained by induction of apoptosis.
Transfection of dendritic cells with tumor-derived RNA has recently been shown to elicit tumor-specific CTL capable of recognizing and lysing a variety of tumor cells. However, the integration of allogeneic osteosarcoma mRNA and autologous DCs has not been fully examined. This study was designed to investigate the antitumor effects of tumor vaccine produced by autologous dendritic cells transfected with allogeneic osteosarcoma total RNA through electroporation in tumor-bearing rats model.
We investigated whether there are long-lasting effects of exposure to single-dose nevirapine (sdNVP) treatment on virologic response to nonnucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based therapy among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected women.
In this study, poison call center data from Illinois were evaluated to determine whether the data could have detected the outbreak that occurred in Illinois in early 2006 and whether it could be used for real-time surveillance.
The aim of this review is to summarize all main aspects of DEG poisoning including epidemiology, toxicokinetics, mechanisms of toxicity, clinical features, toxicity of DEG, diagnosis, and management.
To characterize the clinical effects of acute isolated aripiprazole poisonings and to assess the toxic dose of this drug.
To report a case of serotonin syndrome (SS) after sibutramine overdose in a child.
The objective of this review was to assess the effects of active versus expectant management on blood loss, post partum haemorrhage and other maternal and perinatal complications of the third stage of labour.
To assess the impact of practice-based interventions designed to change IPC, compared to no intervention or to an alternate intervention, on one or more of the following primary outcomes: patient satisfaction and/or the effectiveness and efficiency of the health care provided. Secondary outcomes include the degree of IPC achieved.
The objective of this review is to determine the effect of the elective use of high frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) as compared to conventional ventilation (CV) on the incidence of chronic lung disease, mortality and other complications associated with prematurity and assisted ventilation in preterm infants who are mechanically ventilated for respiratory distress syndrome (RDS).
To determine the effect of early trophic feeding versus enteral fasting on feed tolerance, growth, and the incidence of necrotising enterocolitis, mortality and other morbidities in VLBW infants.
To assess the effects of various forms of treatment for isolated fractures of the ulnar shaft in adults.
To summarise the data from RCTs testing the addition of RT to BCS for treatment of DCIS to determine the balance between the benefits and harms.
To determine whether corticosteroids are effective in preventing or treating post-extubation stridor in critically ill infants, children, or adults.
To assess the effects of smoking cessation interventions during pregnancy on smoking behaviour and perinatal health outcomes.
To evaluate the effects on processes and outcomes of care attributable to on-screen computer reminders delivered to clinicians at the point of care.
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of any antibiotic regimen versus placebo or other antibiotic regimens in the prophylaxis of leptospirosis.
To conduct a systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the efficacy of decision aids for people facing difficult treatment or screening decisions.
To assess analgesic efficacy of ibuprofen in single oral doses for moderate and severe postoperative pain in adults.
To quantify the benefits and harms of the major first-line anti-hypertensive drug classes: thiazides, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, alpha-blockers, and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB).
To determine the efficacy of low protein diets in delaying the need to start maintenance dialysis.
To determine whether homoeopathic Oscillococcinum or similar medicines are more effective than placebo in the prevention and treatment of influenza and influenza-like syndromes.
To assess the effectiveness of interventions involving the use of buprenorphine to manage opioid withdrawal, for withdrawal signs and symptoms, completion of withdrawal and adverse effects.
To summarise the evidence on the effects of corticosteroids on maternal and neonatal mortality and morbidity in women with HELLP syndrome.
To investigate the effect of altering serum lipids pharmacologically for preventing subsequent cardiovascular disease and stroke recurrence in patients with a history of stroke.
To evaluate the effects of methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) compared with treatments that did not involve opioid replacement therapy (i.e., detoxification, offer of drug-free rehabilitation, placebo medication, wait-list controls) for opioid dependence.
To assess the effects of PRT on older people and identify adverse events.
To assess efficacy, duration of action, and associated adverse events of single dose oral oxycodone, with or without paracetamol, in acute postoperative pain in adults.
To determine the effects of mifepristone for third trimester cervical ripening or induction of labour.
To determine the effect of HFOV as compared with CV on mortality and morbidity in infants born at 35 weeks gestational age or more with severe respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation.
To assess the effectiveness of insulin sensitising drugs in improving clinical and biochemical features of PCOS.
To determine when, and if so what type of, surgical intervention is the most appropriate treatment for fractures of the distal radius in adults.
To compare the effects of pharmaceutical therapies used to treat Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in terms of control of seizures and adverse effects. Many people who suffer from this syndrome will already be receiving other antiepileptic medications at the time of their entry into a trial. However, for the purpose of this review we will only consider the effect of the single therapeutic agent being trialed (often as add-on therapy).
To compare the effect of alternative treatment policies for GDM on both maternal and infant outcomes.
This systematic review aims to determine whether conservative interventions have a significant impact on outcomes for work-related CANS in adults.
To assess comparative effects of different classes of antihypertensive agents in kidney transplant recipients.
To assess the most beneficial and least harmful surgical approach to hysterectomy for women with benign gynaecological conditions.
To determine the effectiveness of upper or lower limb orthoses on activity and impairment in people with stroke and other non-progressive brain lesions.
To determine the effectiveness and safety of heparin thromboprophylaxis in general medical patients.
To conduct a systematic review of randomised trials for the treatment of foot drop resulting from neuromuscular disease.
To determine whether evidence supports the use of valproate preparations in the treatment of agitation of people with dementia.
The objective of this review was to evaluate the effectiveness and any harms of topical and systematic lidocaine for the prevention of postoperative sore throat in adults undergoing endotracheal intubation as part of general anaesthesia.
To determine the effect of antiviral agents in the treatment of neonatal HSV infections on mortality, progression of disease and neurodevelopmental sequelae at approximately one year. The secondary objective was to assess the effect of antiviral agents on major complications associated with the use of these agents including nephrotoxicity and bone marrow suppression.
To assess the benefits and harms of statins in peritoneal dialysis (PD) and haemodialysis patients (HD).
To determine the impact of any surgical procedure compared with other surgical interventions or non-surgical procedures, on avascular necrosis of bone in people with SCD in terms of efficacy and safety.
To determine if lower BP targets (&lt;/= 135/85 mmHg) are associated with reduction in mortality and morbidity as compared with standard BP targets (&lt;/= 140-160/ 90-100 mmHg).
To determine the effectiveness of exercise in the treatment of depression.
To determine the effectiveness of combined oral contraceptives (COCs) for the treatment of facial acne compared to placebo or other active therapies.
To evaluate the efficacy of endothelin receptor antagonists in pulmonary arterial hypertension.
To assess the effectiveness and safety of thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute PE.
To determine the effects of different systemic antibiotic treatment regimens for treating chronic osteomyelitis in adults.
To determine the effectiveness of the WHO Safe Communities model to prevent injury in whole populations.
To systematically review the evidence for adjuvant chemotherapy in early stage epithelial ovarian cancer to determine; firstly whether there is a survival advantage of this treatment over the policy of observation following surgery with chemotherapy reserved for treatment of disease recurrence, and secondly; to determine if clinical sub-groups of differing prognosis based on histological sub-type or completeness of surgical staging, have more or less to gain from chemotherapy following initial surgery.
To assess the effectiveness of interventions intended to provide electronic retrieval (access to information) to health information by healthcare providers to improve practice and patient care.
To critically assess any associations between green tea consumption and the risk of cancer incidence and mortality.
The objective of this review was to evaluate the effectiveness of vision screening in reducing the prevalence of amblyopia.
To assess the effects of advocacy interventions conducted within or outside of health care settings on women who have experienced intimate partner abuse.
To evaluate the benefits and harms of different agents (used singularly or in combination) compared with placebo or no treatment or another agent for the prevention or treatment of kidney disease in patients with HSP.
To examine whether haloperidol plus promethazine is an effective treatment for psychosis induced agitation/aggression.
To assess the efficacy and tolerability of medication for treating paediatric anxiety disorders.
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of aerobic exercise training programmes for physiological and psychosocial outcomes in adults with Down syndrome.
To determine whether brief interventions reduce alcohol consumption and improve outcomes for heavy alcohol users admitted to general hospital inpatient units.
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy after radical hysterectomy, radiotherapy, or both in the treatment of early stage cervical cancer (stages IA2, IB1 or IIA).
To assess the effectiveness, safety, tolerability, and costs of interventions to reduce blood loss during myomectomy.
To assess the efficacy and toxicity of targeted anti-angiogenic therapies, in addition to chemotherapy, in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Primary endpoints are both progression-free and overall survival. Response rates, toxicity and secondary resectability were secondary endpoints. Comparisons were first-line chemotherapy in combination with angiogenesis inhibitor, to the same chemotherapy without angiogenesis inhibitor; and second-line chemotherapy, to the same chemotherapy without angiogenesis inhibitor.
To assess the clinical effectiveness and safety of single agent or combination chemotherapy with or without immunochemotherapy (rituximab) and with or without highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) on overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) for previously untreated patients with AIDS-related NHL.
The aim of this review was to evaluate the effects of Trizivir, a fixed-dose combination of three NRTIs (abacavir-lamivudine-zidovudine) for initial treatment of HIV infection.
To compare the effectiveness of combined DTP-HBV-HIB vaccine with DTP-HBV and HIB vaccinations.
To summarise evidence on the efficacy and safety of corticosteroid injections for de Quervain's tenosynovitis.
The purpose of this systematic review was to evaluate and compare the effects of endodontic treatment performed with the aid of magnification devices versus endodontic treatment without magnification devices. We also aimed at comparing among them the different magnification devices used in endodontics (microscope, endoscope, magnifying loupes).
To assess the effect of family support on morbidity, mortality, quality of life, and economics in families with at least one HIV-infected member, in developing countries.
To assess the effects of antimicrobial agents on BV in non-pregnant women.
To assess the effects of incentive spirometry compared to no such therapy (or other therapy) on all-cause postoperative pulmonary complications (atelectasis, acute respiratory inadequacy) and mortality in adult patients admitted for upper abdominal surgery.
To assess the effects of overground physical therapy gait training on walking ability for chronic stroke patients with mobility deficits.
To assess whether combined treatment with radiotherapy and erythropoietin (RT plus EPO) is better than standard radiotherapy (RT alone) for the treatment of head and neck cancer patients.
To determine whether garlic (allium sativum) is effective for either the prevention or treatment of the common cold, when compared to placebo, no treatment or other treatments.
To quantify the potential beneficial effect of thermo radiation compared to chemo-radiation with respect to pathological complete responses, overall survival and toxicity in rectal cancer therapy.
To determine the efficacy and tolerability of various clozapine combination strategies with antipsychotics in people with treatment resistant schizophrenia.
To determine the effectiveness and safety of topical glyceryl trinitrate for rotator cuff disease.
To determine the effects of NSAIDs versus placebo and other treatments on the signs and symptoms of the common cold. To determine any adverse effects of NSAIDs in patients treated with NSAIDs for the common cold.
To assess the effectiveness of non-pharmaceutical interventions for preventing occupational noise exposure or occupational hearing loss compared to no intervention or alternative interventions.
To determine if treating helminth infection in individuals with HIV-1 can reduce the progression of HIV-1 as determined by changes in CD4 count, viral load, or clinical disease progression.
To assess the effects of non-pharmacological interventions in assisting induction of anaesthesia in children by reducing their anxiety, distress or increasing their co-operation.
To determine the effectiveness and safety of traditional Chinese medicine in people with epilepsy.
Evaluate the effectiveness of therapeutic interventions aimed at modifying disease progression in HD.
To evaluate the effectiveness of the available interventions for the symptomatic treatment of HD.
To assess effect(s) of monofaceted and multifaceted interventions compared with control interventions in preventing asthma and asthma symptoms in high risk children.
We aimed to review the evidence from randomised trials for the efficacy of any form of immunotherapy in the treatment of diabetic amyotrophy.
To assess the evidence for the efficacy, acceptability and tolerability of milnacipran in comparison with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), heterocyclics, SSRIs and other newer antidepressive agents in the acute-phase treatment of major depression.
To examine the effectiveness and adverse effects of laser photocoagulation of drusen in AMD.
To review the effectiveness and safety of CHM in alleviating endometriosis-related pain and infertility.
To assess the effect of iron on malaria and deaths.
To evaluate whether a 1-stage implant placement procedure is as effective as a 2-stage procedure.
To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of PEI or PAI in adults with early HCC.
To determine whether social norms feedback reduces alcohol misuse in university or college students.
To assess the effects of a maternity waiting facility on maternal and perinatal health.
To summarise the evidence for the impact of glycaemic control in the peri-operative period on the incidence of surgical site infections, hypoglycaemia, level of glycaemic control, all-cause and infection-related mortality, and hospital length of stay and to investigate for differences of effect between different levels of glycaemic control.
To examine the effects of adjunctive G-CSF compared with placebo or no growth factor added to usual care on rates of infection, cure and wound healing in people with diabetes who have a foot infection.
To assess efficacy and safety of cyclobenzaprine in treating MP.
To determine the effectiveness of speech intervention using electropalatography (EPG) for treating articulation errors in individuals with repaired cleft palate.
To examine the efficacy of multiple session early psychological interventions commenced within three months of a traumatic event aimed at preventing PTSD. Single session individual/group psychological interventions were excluded.
The primary objective was to compare efficacy of oral versus intravenous steroids for MS relapses &lt;= 6 weeks. Secondary comparisons included subsequent relapse rate, disability, ambulation, hospitalization, immunological markers, radiological markers, and quality of life.
The aim of this review is to assess the risk of fatal and non-fatal serious adverse events in trials that randomised patients with chronic asthma to regular salmeterol with inhaled corticosteroids versus the same dose of inhaled corticosteroids alone.
To examine the effectiveness of statins compared with other treatments, no treatment, or placebo in delaying the onset and/or progression of AMD.
To assess the effects of interventions for erythema nodosum leprosum.
To assess the effects of local anaesthetic agent wound infiltration/irrIgation and/or abdominal nerve blocks on post-caesarean section pain and the mother's well being and interaction with her baby.
The objective was to provide a systematic review of all randomised clinical trials of treatment in neuralgic amyotrophy.
We evaluated the benefits and harms of adding aldosterone antagonists in patients with CKD currently treated with ACEi and/or ARB.
To determine whether any treatment for fatigue after stroke reduces the proportion of patients with fatigue, or fatigue severity, or both, and to determine the effect of treatment on health-related quality of life, disability, dependency and death, and whether such treatments are cost effective.
To assess the efficacy and safety of acanthopanax in patients with acute ischaemic stroke.
To determine if intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) adjuvant therapy provides a therapeutic advantage over and above treatment with systemic corticosteroids in combination with immunosuppressants for the treatment of WG.
To assess analgesic efficacy and associated adverse events of pregabalin in acute and chronic pain.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of antiepileptic treatments in patients with MS.
To assess the effectiveness of antenatal management based on TVU CL screening for preventing PTB.
To evaluate whether ARV TDM reduces mortality and morbidity of adult patients on ART. The primary outcome measures that have been assessed include death (all cause); occurrence of HIV-related events (death or AIDS-defining illness) and the proportion of patients achieving and maintaining an undetectable viral load, as defined by the authors.
Our objectives were to examine the effect of ESAs and identify factors that modify the effects of ESAs on overall survival, progression free survival, thromboembolic and cardiovascular events as well as need for transfusions and other important safety and efficacy outcomes in cancer patients.
This systematic review assessed the current literature for evidence for or against use of antibiotic prophylaxis against Leptospira infection (leptospirosis).
To assess the effects of topical corticosteroids on pregnancy outcomes.
To assess the analgesic efficacy of etodolac in single oral doses for moderate and severe postoperative pain.
To assess efficacy, duration of action, and associated adverse events of single dose oral flurbiprofen in acute postoperative pain in adults.
To evaluate the effectiveness of pharmacologic interventions in pregnant women enrolled in alcohol treatment programs for improving birth and neonatal outcomes, maternal abstinence and treatment retention.
To review all randomized controlled trials that have evaluated a treatment for IUD insertion-related pain.
To review current evidence for efficacy and safety of topically applied rubefacients in acute and chronic painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults.
To assess the efficacy of single dose oral nefopam in acute postoperative pain, and any associated adverse events.
To assess the effect of IAP for maternal GBS colonization on neonatal: 1) all cause mortality and 2) morbidity from proven and probable EOGBSD, late onset GBS disease (LOD), maternal infectious outcomes and allergic reactions to antibiotics.
To compare the effects of ACTs with other available ACT and non-ACT combinations for treating uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria.
To assess efficacy, duration of action, and associated adverse events of single dose oral dexibuprofen in acute postoperative pain in adults.
To systematically review randomized controlled trials examining the efficacy and safety of methotrexate for maintenance of remission in patients with ulcerative colitis.
To assess the efficacy of single dose oral aceclofenac in acute postoperative pain, and any associated adverse events.
To assess the efficacy of single dose oral acemetacin in acute postoperative pain, and any associated adverse events.
To assess the efficacy of single dose oral tenoxicam in acute postoperative pain, and any associated adverse events.
To assess effects on clinical outcomes of interventions for preventing hyperglycemia in VLBW neonates receiving full or partial parenteral nutrition.
To assess the long-term effects of pharmacologically induced reduction in body weight with orlistat, sibutramine or rimonabant on:- all cause mortality - cardiovascular morbidity - adverse events
- changes in systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure - body weight reduction
To determine the effectiveness and safety of pentoxifylline, which has anti-inflammatory effects, in the management of endometriosis in subfertile, premenopausal women.
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of danazol in women with uterine fibroids.
To assess the effects of antibacterial agents incorporated into composite restorations for the prevention of dental caries.
The aim of this work is to quantitatively summarize the results of RCT comparing HAI to SCT for the treatment of unresectable hepatic metastases from CRC.
To determine whether land-based therapeutic exercise is beneficial for people with hip OA in terms of reduced joint pain and/or improved physical function.
To assess the effects of cleansing the skin of blood donors with alcohol in a one-step compared with alcohol in a two-step procedure to prevent contamination of collected blood or bacteraemia in the recipient.
To compare the safety and benefit of adding LABA to ICS with the same or an increased dose of ICS in children with persistent asthma.
To determine the efficacy and tolerability of antidepressants in patients (under the age of 65 years) with depression in primary care.
To identify effective strategies to increase response to postal and electronic questionnaires.
To determine long-term outcome after treatment with an intragastric balloon for 6 months, with no structured weight maintenance program offered after balloon removal.
Pharyngeal anesthesia using topical lidocaine is generally used as pretreatment for unsedated esophagogastroduodenoscopy (UEGD). The aim of this study was to compare and evaluate the clinical efficacy of topical viscous lidocaine solution and lidocaine spray when each is used as a single agent for UEGD.
Capsule endoscopy is considered the diagnostic procedure of choice in patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (OGIB). Double-balloon endoscopy (DBE) offers both diagnostic and therapeutic potential, but is invasive, complex, and time-consuming. The aim was to evaluate diagnostic agreement between capsule endoscopy and DBE in patients with OGIB, and secondarily the diagnostic gain of DBE when capsule endoscopy detected only blood or clots in the small-bowel lumen.
Complication rates for EUS-guided celiac plexus blockade (CPB) and celiac plexus neurolysis (CPN) have been largely derived from studies utilizing percutaneous or surgical techniques, with few studies specifically examining rates for EUS-guided CPB and CPN. This study aims to further describe the complication rates of EUS-guided CPB and CPN.
Hot saline may be potentially useful for inducing necrosis of pancreatic tissue. However, the local and systemic effects are largely unknown. This pilot study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and safety of EUS-guided injection of hot saline into the pancreas in the porcine model.
Gastrointestinal endoscopy investigations are frequently requested by gastroenterologists, general practitioners and other physicians. In addition to the classic methods of report writing, several electronic endoscopic report systems are currently available. The aim of the study was to evaluate the costs of three different ways of producing reports; by hand, by dictation, or by computer.
Severe ballistic injuries to the face create complex, composite defects of 2 facial subunits. These injuries have an extremely high economic impact for the Medicare system. The surgical goal with these patients is to restore basic functions of the face with a rapid morphological improvement. Our hypothesis is as follows: Early restoration of facial segments with a single free multiple island latissimus dorsi flap without primary bone reconstruction can significantly reduce hospitalization time and allow earlier psychiatric therapy with good morphological results.
Our aim was to determine whether patients who have had a negative gastrointestinal evaluation (i.e. oesophagogastroduodenoscopy and a colonic examination) for iron deficiency anaemia are subsequently found to have recurrent anaemia or significant pathology.
To evaluate the rebleeding and mortality rate of patients admitted with UGIH to a tertiary centre bleed unit in comparison with the current national standards and earlier unit performance in 1995-1998.
To determine the use of sedation in Spanish GIE units.
Early gastric cancer (EGC) can be treated by minimally invasive endoscopic resection and has an excellent prognosis. The aim of this study was to investigate whether repeated esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) screening is an effective method for detecting EGC that can be treated by endoscopic resection.
N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is an antioxidant, a precursor of reduced glutathione, and an inhibitor of the profibrotic cytokine liver transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta). Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) cirrhosis is characterized by oxidative stress and fibrosis. Therefore, the aim of this work was to study the effect of NAC on experimental cirrhosis.
Various pleiotropic substances have been suggested as candidates that directly reduce the severity of liver injury after hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) and upon acute liver failure (ALF). Herein, we studied whether thrombopoietin (TPO), the main regulator of megakaryopoiesis and thrombopoiesis, showed hepatoprotective effects and might mediate an antiapoptotic function in liver tissue under stress.
The aim of this study was to prospectively compare the diagnostic yield of wireless capsule endoscopy (WCE) and enteroclysis in the detection of Crohn's disease (CD) of the small bowel.
The glycosphingolipid beta-galactosylceramide-3-O-sulfate (sulfatide) is present in the secretory granules of the insulin producing beta-cells and may act as a molecular chaperone of insulin. The final step in sulfatide synthesis is performed by cerebroside sulfotransferase (CST) (EC 2.8.2.11). The aim of this study was to investigate whether two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), rs2267161 located in an exon or rs42929 located in an intron, in the gene encoding CST are linked to type 2 diabetes (T2D).
Atrial Natriuretic Peptide (ANP) has natriuretic and diuretic effects, synthesized and stored in the atrial cells, released in response to stretch of the atrial muscle during increase venous return. Acute gastroenteritis (AGE) causes dehydration. We intend to determine whether the decrease in venous return due to dehydration would lead to a decrease in ANP levels.
This study was conducted to assess the prevalence and associated risk factors of khat chewing among college and secondary school students in Jazan region.
To assess the accuracy in diagnosing heart failure of clinical features and potential primary care investigations, and to perform a decision analysis to test the impact of plausible diagnostic strategies on costs and diagnostic yield in the UK health-care setting.
The purpose of this study was to investigate associations between self-rated health and indicators of social capital (trust, various social contacts, social participation, and access to help) among aging people living in urban and rural areas in Finland.
The purpose of this study was to examine the factor structure and measurement equivalence/invariance (ME/I) of the decisional balance scale.
We examined the structural, convergent, and divergent validity and the reliability of the DS14 in the Ukrainian setting.
The current study aimed to develop and evaluate the Chinese version of DSES (DSES-C).
Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the factor structure of the IAS on a large representative sample.
The main objective of the present series of studies was to test the construct validity of the BIAQ in a community sample of French adolescents.
This study investigated associations between depressive symptoms and cervical neoplasia in HIV+ HPV+ women. Participants were 58 HIV+ HPV+ women.
This paper describes the development of the European Portuguese version of the WHOQOL-100, according to the methodology recommended by the WHO.
The aim of this study was to investigate aspects of adolescent's health enhancing health behaviors and their relationship with potentially protective factors in the home and school environment.
A three-dimensional finite element analysis was conducted to evaluate and compare the stress distribution around two prosthesis-implant systems, in which implants were arranged in either a straight-line or an intrabone offset configuration.
The aim of this study was to compare two types of orthodontic mini-implants, self-tapping and self-drilling, by measurement of the insertion torques and the displacements under lateral loading in an animal model.
The purpose of this study was to analyze electrocardiographic alterations during dental implant surgeries when local anesthetic agents were used.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of different titanium surface characteristics on the behavior and function of oral fibroblasts as well as the deposition pattern of collagen within the extracellular matrix.
Sites that will receive dental implants need to be quantitatively and qualitatively suitable for this therapy. The treatment of postextraction areas with biomaterials associated with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) might make the repair process more efficient, resulting in desirable bone characteristics. The present study sought to evaluate the effectiveness of PRP in the process of new bone formation when associated with biomaterials.
To evaluate the level of agreement between nonlinear finite element stress analysis (NL-FEA) and ex vivo strain gauge analysis (EV-SGA) on immediately loaded implants.
The accuracy of a system for image-guided dental implant planning and placement based on individually fabricated oral templates was investigated in a phantom study.
The biomechanical effects of different strengths of grafted bone, bicortical anchorage, and dimensional alterations of a dental implant with maxillary sinus augmentation were investigated.
To evaluate the amount of bone matrix in autogenous block bone grafts that were fixed with or without perforation of the receptor bed.
Modern implant dentistry requires the application of torque during various treatment steps. This study investigated seven different surgical motors for the accuracy of the applied torque and their reliability.
The development of gap-free abutments is a challenging problem, because the gap between the implant and the abutment, which is a consequence of current manufacturing limitations, can serve as a reservoir for pathogens. This may lead to peri-implantitis, a major cause of implant failure. Therefore, the aim of this study was to design and fabricate a gap-free abutment using a shape memory alloy with improved ability to prevent microleakage at the implant-abutment gap.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate and to compare the bone-cutting performance and intraosseous temperature development of three modern ultrasonic devices for bone surgery (UDBS).
The aim of this study was to identify risk factors for the development of clinical signs of peri-implant mucositis and for the presence of periodontal pathogens and to determine a possible correlation between these clinical signs and the presence of periodontal pathogens.
Altering the vertical dimension of occlusion (VDO) by increasing the interarch distance is common in oral rehabilitation, but little is known about the ability of implant patients, who lack sensory perception in implanted regions, to adapt to such changes. This study sought to evaluate the outcome of increasing VDO in patients restored with implant-supported fixed restorations opposed by restored natural teeth or implant-supported restorations.
The aims of the current study were to: (1) evaluate the results of vertical guided bone regeneration (GBR) with particulate autogenous bone grafts, (2) determine clinically and radiographically the success and survival rates of 82 implants placed in such surgical sites after prosthetic loading for 12 to 72 months, and (3) compare defects that were treated simultaneously with sinus augmentation and vertical GBR to other areas of the jaw treated with vertical GBR only.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate, using finite element analysis, the stress patterns induced in cortical bone by three distinct implant-supported prosthetic designs.
The literature suggests that predictable integration can be achieved when dental implant placement is combined with immediate fixed provisional restoration in a variety of clinical situations. Fewer data are available, however, regarding outcomes for immediate provisional restoration of implants in the edentulous maxilla. This report presents 1-year data acquired from a long-term prospective clinical trial designed to assess outcomes following the immediate provisional fixed restoration of implants in the atrophic edentulous maxilla without the use of bone augmentation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate implant-supported restorations supported by palatally positioned implants as an alternative treatment for rehabilitation of the atrophic maxilla and to assess the satisfaction of patients with the results.
A retrospective study on the performance of endosseous implants in a population of patients with severe epilepsy and additional motor and/or intellectual impairments was performed.
The objectives of this study were to examine the efficacy of acupuncture in hastening recovery and reducing long-term morbidity from Bell's palsy.
The objectives of this study were to initiate a pharmacist-coordinated program to improve the adverse drug reaction (ADR) reporting on complementary and alternative medicines (CAM) in a tertiary care hospital and to evaluate the pattern of the reported ADRs.
This study aims to gain an overview of hot topics related to research focused on Chinese herbal drugs by authors inside China and outside of China in the past 10 years.
To evaluate the effect of indigowood root (Isatis indigotica Fort.) on acute mucositis induced by radiation.
To evaluate the synergistic action of starch on the antibacterial activity of royal jelly (RJ), a comparative method of adding RJ with and without starch to culture media was used.
Breathing exercises practiced in various forms of meditations such as yoga may influence autonomic functions. This may be the basis of therapeutic benefit to hypertensive patients.
The objective of this study is to describe the use and the user of herbal remedies during pregnancy and to study the sources of information about herbs used.
To investigate whether a training process that focused on a questionnaire-based diagnosis in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), and developing diagnostic consensus, would improve the agreement of TCM diagnoses among 10 TCM practitioners evaluating patients with temporomandibular joint disorder (TMJD).
We aim to identify the genetic loci responsible for Sasang constitution type, which is important for effective personalized treatments in traditional Korean medicine.
We administered Kampo medicine for tension-type headache with extremely effective results. The objective is to demonstrate the effect of Kampo medicine.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of acupuncture administered during myelosuppressive chemotherapy on white blood cell (WBC) count and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) in patients with ovarian cancer.
To investigate the benefits of long-term therapy with Xuezhikang, a cholestin extract, in combination with calcium channel blockers for improvement of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and function in patients with essential hypertension, as determined using echocardiography.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ASHMI in adult subjects with allergic asthma.
Determine patients' perceptions of physicians' personal digital assistant (PDA) use, comparing the results across 8 physician-patient dimensions important to clinical interactions.
To examine skin and soft tissue infections presenting at 4 primary care clinics and assess if historical risk factors and examination findings were associated with a positive methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) culture.
To present 2 IRB-related issues that have not appeared in the literature but occurred during the course of a large 5-year PBRN study involving 32 sites dispersed around the United States.
To identify risk factors for ciprofloxacin resistance in both travel-related and domestically acquired Campylobacter infection.
To evaluate the BACTEC(TM) MGIT(TM) 960/MGIT Para TB (MGIT) system for drug susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP), a pathogen implicated in some forms of Crohn's disease.
Nosocomial isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae resistant to all commonly used antimicrobial agents have emerged in many regions of the world. It is unknown if efflux systems contribute to the multidrug resistance phenotype.
The availability of antimicrobials that may be used for the treatment of infections caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae has been limited by the emergence of antimicrobial resistance, particularly fluoroquinolone resistance. Few data exist regarding the pharmacodynamics of fluoroquinolone resistance selection in N. gonorrhoeae.
This study evaluated the potential of DNase, alginate lyase (AlgL) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in enhancing the in vitro bactericidal activity of conventional (free) and vesicle-entrapped (liposomal) gentamicin, amikacin and tobramycin.
Antifungal monotherapy with polyenes, azoles or echinocandins is not always effective for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a combination of micafungin and amphotericin B for the primary treatment of IPA in an immunocompromised mouse model.
This study aimed to investigate the origin of high-level azithromycin resistance that emerged in isolates of Neisseria gonorrhoeae in England and Wales in 2007, and to establish methods for identifying high-level azithromycin resistance.
Gentamicin is often used to treat listeriosis, particularly in patients with meningitis; nonetheless, some clinicians question this practice because of the drug's associated nephrotoxicity and inability to cross the blood-brain barrier. The aim of this study was to evaluate predictors of mortality and the impact of aminoglycosides on outcome in patients with listeriosis.
Although Pseudomonas aeruginosa from cystic fibrosis patients are well known for their antibiotic resistance, isolates that are highly susceptible to multiple drug classes have also been encountered. In this study, hypersusceptible P. aeruginosa isolates were analysed for changes in intrinsic resistance mechanisms to explain the observed phenotype.
Recently, a CTX-M-15 extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Escherichia coli O25b-ST131 clone, belonging to the B2 phylogenetic group and with a high virulence potential, has been reported all over the world, representing a major public health problem. The present study was carried out to develop a rapid and simple detection assay that identifies members of this clone.
Detection and characterization of extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) and AmpC-encoding genes was conducted in German Salmonella isolated from different sources from 2003 to 2007.
Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) and enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) are among the most frequent microorganisms causing traveller's diarrhoea. The aim of this study was to investigate the evolution of antimicrobial resistance in EAEC and ETEC causing diarrhoea in patients who had travelled to different developing countries, comparing two periods of time, 1994-97 and 2001-04.
Fluoroquinolone resistance has been poorly studied in Legionella pneumophila, an intracellular pathogen responsible for legionellosis. Our goal was to further characterize molecular mechanisms involved in fluoroquinolone resistance in this species.
The optimal duration of systemic antibiotic therapy in patients with prosthetic hip infection (PHI) undergoing staged exchange arthroplasty (SEA) has not been determined. We hypothesized that with an antibiotic-loaded cement spacer (ALCS), in the interim, short-term antibiotic therapy is as effective as a conventional prolonged treatment course.
Our objectives were to systematically assess the quality of reporting of adverse events (AEs) in publications of randomized trials of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), and to examine whether reporting quality affects the effect estimates reported for AEs.
To assess safety, tolerance and efficacy of liposomal amphotericin B (LAMB) in a large unselected series of paediatric cancer/haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) patients requiring LAMB therapy.
In vitro and in vivo experiments were used to determine whether albendazole-PEG 6000 solid dispersions would be effective in the treatment of Toxocara canis larva migrans.
The aim of this study was to identify mutations within the fingers, palm and thumb subdomains of the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) associated with therapy failure to various combinations of two nucleoside analogues.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficiency of two commercial assays, INNO-LiPA Rif.TB and MTBDRplus, for the identification of mutations in the rpoB hot-spot region and to assess the efficiency of these mutations in conferring resistance to rifampicin.
In 2008, a new set of penicillin breakpoints was published in the CLSI revised guideline, M100-S18, to define the susceptibility of non-meningeal isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae. The impact of the change is studied and discussed.
Ontario bears the greatest burden of tuberculosis in Canada, with 40% of all cases and 60% of multidrug-resistant cases. The purpose of this study was to genotypically characterize isoniazid- and rifampicin-resistant isolates and compare these results with phenotypic drug susceptibility testing data. This is the first Canadian study to examine gene mutations that contribute to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
Several Leishmania strains with episomal expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) require constant drug pressure for its continuous expression and hence limit its use in ex vivo or in vivo systems. The aim of this study was to alleviate this problem by stably integrating the GFP gene into the parasite genome, so as to use these transfectants for ex vivo and in vivo drug screening.
KPC-possessing Klebsiella pneumoniae have been found to be widespread in several regions but are still rarely detected in Europe. We describe the characteristics of an outbreak caused by KPC producers in a tertiary care Greek hospital.
The aim of the investigation was to use in vitro transposon mutagenesis to generate metronidazole resistance in the obligately anaerobic pathogenic bacterium Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, and to identify the genes involved to enable investigation of potential mechanisms for the generation of metronidazole resistance.
To construct the eukaryotic expression vector hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha-pcDNA(3.1) and to investigate its transfective efficiency into mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in vitro and the expression of HIF-1alpha gene in MSCs.
Transient global amnesia (TGA) is characterized by sudden anterograde and retrograde amnesia lasting for up to 24 hours. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) in cases of TGA and ischemia demonstrates a high frequency of high signal intensities restricted to the hippocampus, and this has been proposed as an etiology of TGA. The aims of this study were to characterize the DWI and single-photon-emission computed tomography (SPECT) findings during the acute and recovered phases of TGA and to correlate the findings with oculomotor abnormalities.
Several clinical studies have demonstrated that patients with essential tremor (ET) may have cognitive deficits; however, there are no published data regarding detailed neuropsychological assessments of ET without dementia. We therefore conducted a case-control study of cognitive function in patients with ET.
Elevated plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) levels are reported to be associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanism by which homocysteine contributes to the pathogenesis of AD is as yet unknown. The aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship between white matter changes (WMC) and medial temporal lobe atrophy (MTA) on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and plasma levels of tHcy in AD patients.
Scoliosis is more common in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) than in the general elderly population. We compared clinical characteristics between PD patients with and without scoliosis, to identify the relationship between the direction of scoliosis and the laterality of the dominant symptoms of PD. We also studied the associations between dopaminergic pharmacotherapy and scoliosis (defined by a spinal curvature deviation of 10 degrees or larger).
In search of reliable biologic markers to predict the risk of normal tissue damage by radio(chemo)therapy before treatment, we investigated the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the transforming growth factor 1 (TGFbeta1) gene and risk of radiation pneumonitis (RP) in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Routine follow-up of adult cancer survivors is an important clinical and health service issue. Because of a lack of evidence supporting advantages of long-term follow-up care in oncology clinics, there is increasing interest for the locus of this care to be provided by primary care physicians (PCPs). However, current Canadian PCP views on this issue have been largely unknown.
To compare clinical features and outcomes of adults and children reported to have rhabdomyosarcoma.
The National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project C-08 trial was designed to investigate the safety and effectiveness of adding bevacizumab to modified infusional fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) 6 regimen for the adjuvant treatment of patients with stage II or III colon cancer. We present safety information in advance of the planned analysis of efficacy.
The impact of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) on 3-year progression-free survival of medically inoperable patients with stage I non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was analyzed in a prospective phase II study.
Sentinel node biopsy is used to evaluate the nodal status of patients with clinically node-negative penile carcinoma. Its use is not widespread, and the majority of patients with clinically node-negative disease undergo an elective inguinal lymph node dissection. Reservations about the use of sentinel node biopsy include the fact that most current results come from one institution and the supposedly long learning curve associated with the procedure. The purpose of this study was to address these issues by analyzing results from two centers and by evaluating the learning curve.
Samarium-153 ((153)Sm) lexidronam is a bone-targeting radiopharmaceutical with a short physical half-life and a favorable toxicity profile. We evaluated the safety and feasibility of a concurrent combination of weekly docetaxel with repeated (153)Sm-lexidronam in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of pemetrexed, carboplatin, and bevacizumab followed by maintenance pemetrexed and bevacizumab in patients with chemotherapy-naive stage IIIB (effusion) or stage IV nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Little is known about the outcome of pediatric patients with lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) who suffer from progressive disease or relapse.
We studied the incidence, risk factors, treatment, and outcomes of post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) that occurred at the University of Michigan since 1964.
This is a multicenter phase I/II dose-finding study in relapsed/refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) evaluating veltuzumab, a humanized anti-CD20 antibody with structure-function differences from chimeric rituximab.
Mature survival data and evaluation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as a prognostic biomarker from the Treatment Approaches in Renal Cancer Global Evaluation Trial (TARGET) study in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) are reported.
Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) are two new promising tools for therapeutic monitoring. In this study, we compared the prognostic value of CTC and FDG-PET/CT monitoring during systemic therapy for metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
To determine if it is preferable to extend chemotherapy beyond a standard number of cycles in patients receiving first-line chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
Population studies have suggested that metformin use in diabetic patients decreases cancer incidence and mortality. Metformin inhibits the growth of cancer cells in vitro and tumors in vivo. However, there is little clinical data to support this. Our purpose was to determine whether metformin use was associated with a change in pathologic complete response (pCR) rates in diabetic patients with breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
The purpose of this study was to describe the frequency of interventions necessary to palliate the intact primary tumor in patients who present with synchronous, stage IV colorectal cancer (CRC) and who receive up-front modern combination chemotherapy without prophylactic surgery.
To evaluate the prognostic role of soluble CD163 (sCD163) in serum and macrophage infiltration in primary melanomas from patients with American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stage I/II melanoma. The scavenger receptor CD163 is associated with anti-inflammatory macrophages, and it is shed from their surface.
To evaluate the effectiveness of laser hair removal (LHR) in the natal cleft area on the recurrence rate of PNS as an adjuvant therapy after surgical treatment.
The aim of this study is to describe a peculiar photoinduced rash which triggered acute and then chronic lesions of GVHD in four allogenic haematopoietic-transplanted patients and discuss the possible aetiology and treatment.
Vitiligo is an acquired pigmentary disorder of skin and hair. Active melanocytes in hair follicles can be detected by DOPA and immunohistochemical staining, while amelanotic melanocytes can only be detected by the latter. None of the studies on hair melanocytes in vitiligo discussed the effect of disease duration on these melanocytes. Here, we study the presence of melanotic and amelanotic melanocytes in vitiligo hair follicles and statistically correlating their presence with the disease duration.
To improve cosmetic result of removing facial epidermoid cyst through minimal incision surgery.
To assess the impact of treatment with either calcipotriol plus betamethasone dipropionate scalp formulation or calcipotriol scalp solution on QoL in patients with scalp psoriasis (both within and between treatment groups).
The intent of our study was to determine the efficacy of oral naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, in the treatment of pruritus in patients with chronic eczema.
Treatment in psoriasis vulgaris continues to unmet needs in terms of efficacy, quality of life and costs. Patients with moderate forms of psoriasis are using topical corticosteroids as first-line therapy and patients with severe forms also use this therapy. Optimization of this treatment is made by the use of combination drugs or by the sequential or rotational therapies. A multicentric clinical study was performed to measure the efficiency of mometasone furoate 0.1% and salicylic acid 5% and mometasone furoate 0.1% as sequential local therapy in psoriasis.
To compare the efficacy of PDT and PDL in the treatment of nail psoriasis.
Psycho-dermatology addresses the interaction between mind and the skin. Effective management of at least one third of the patients attending the skin department depends, to some extent, upon the recognition of emotional and psychologic factors. The aim of this study was to provide epidemiologic data about common psycho-dermatoses and their prevalence in dermatologic patients in Iran.
Awareness of HIV/AIDS, its prevention, and hypothetical behaviour were surveyed in dermatological outpatients.
This study aims to assess the response of vitiligo to once- or twice-daily treatment with 0.1% tacrolimus in a controlled, randomized, observer-blinded study.
Capsule endoscopy is a highly sensitive method for the detection of small bowel lesions. False-positive findings are important confounding factors. This study reports on a scoring system for evaluating the role of capsule endoscopy in small bowel tumors.
Meningococcal disease, including meningitis and sepsis, usually follows an invasive infection by Neisseria meningitidis, and is a major cause of death and morbidity worldwide. Currently available meningococcal vaccines that consist of pure capsular polysaccharides (serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y) are generally safe and efficacious in adults and children aged &gt; 2 years. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of a single dose of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals' Mencevax ACWY vaccine in healthy Taiwanese subjects aged 2-30 years.
The addition of ultra-low-dose naloxone to patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) with morphine reduces opioid-related side effects. Nalbuphine, a mixed opioid agonist-antagonist, may be able to attenuate opioid-related side effects. The goal of the present study was to investigate the effect of combined low-dose nalbuphine and morphine in PCA for postoperative pain control after gynecological surgery.
Cadmium (Cd) causes various genitourinary disorders and is a carcinogen for prostate cancer. Metallothionein (MT) is a protein that detoxifies heavy metals. We evaluated changes in Cd concentration and MT expression in human prostate cancer (CaP) and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Our goal was to clarify the relationship between Cd concentration and MT expression in prostatic diseases.
Alcohol-induced oxidative stress is the result of the combined production of reactive oxygen species [ROS; e.g. malondialdehyde (MDA), an index of lipid peroxidation] and impairment of antioxidant defenses [e.g. superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX), which are involved in the elimination of ROS]. Little is known about the oxidative stress markers among patients with alcohol dependence in Taiwan. This study aimed to investigate serial alterations of various oxidative stress markers during early detoxification in alcoholic patients.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) (MIM 166200, 166210, 259420 and 166220) is a congenital disorder characterized by increased bone fragility and low bone mass. Information regarding the clinical features of this genetic disorder is lacking in Taiwan. This study aimed to characterize the clinical features of OI patients in Taiwan to establish a practical correlation for distinguishing different clinical subtypes of the disorder.
There has been a lack of studies that have used both three-dimensional analysis and imaging tools concurrently to describe lung volume changes and breathing pattern in subjects in the supine position. The purpose of this study was to investigate the correlation between volume changes estimated by optoelectronic plethysmography (OEP) and diaphragmatic excursion (DE) measured by ultrasonography of healthy adults in the supine position.
To determine the association between asthma control and health outcomes.
The objective of this study is to investigate the mobilization of lead from bone to blood (endogenous exposure) in a large epidemiologic population.
: To determine whether changes in metabolic syndrome (MetS) risks over time are associated with commensurate changes in health care costs, pharmacy costs and short-term disability costs in an employed population.
To evaluate the variation of some biomarkers related to the level of enzymatic activity dependent on the different polymorphisms.
To determine the accuracy of self-reported health care utilization and absence reported on health risk assessments against administrative claims and human resource records.
To calculate return-on-investment (ROI) from workplace obesity interventions, employers require information about costs saved by the intervention. This article presents a simulation model used to calculate ROI for workplace obesity interventions.
To investigate the effect of two contrasting physical activity worksite interventions versus a reference intervention (REF) on various health outcomes.
To examine occupational risk for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).
To investigate the impact of sociocultural workplace attributes on participation in employer sponsored health assessments.
To develop, evaluate, and apply a questionnaire-based instrument for investigation of specific symptoms in idiopathic environmental intolerance (IEI), called the Idiopathic Environmental Intolerance Symptom Inventory (IEISI).
To conduct the seventh periodic review and analysis of the clinical and cost-effectiveness research conducted in worksite/corporate environments between 2004 and 2008.
To explore the formative infant feeding experiences and education of NICU nurses.
To investigate the attitudes, beliefs, and concerns of pregnant and postpartum adolescents regarding breastfeeding.
The purpose of the study was to determine the number of days of diary data collection needed to reliably measure mother and infant sleep-wake pattern.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of vasomotor and mood symptoms on insomnia in postmenopausal women.
Dyspareunia is a common sexual dysfunction. There is a lack of studies that address female sexual dysfunction in Puerto Rico. The present cross-sectional study characterized dyspareunia in a sample of Puerto Rican women aged 40 to 59 years and evaluated the relationship between reported dyspareunia with demographic, lifestyle, and health factors.
The aim of this study was to evaluate associations between hot flashes and depressed mood in the menopausal transition and associations of these symptoms with reproductive hormone changes.
Depression occurs more commonly during the menopausal transition in women with vasomotor symptoms (VMS) than in those without, but most women with VMS do not develop depression. It has been hypothesized that VMS are associated with depression because VMS lead to repeated awakenings, which impair daytime well-being. We aimed to determine if objectively measured sleep and perceived sleep quality are worse in depressed women with VMS than in nondepressed women with VMS.
The risk for premature ovarian failure increases in association with two principal known etiologies: in the presence of excessive triple CGG expansions on the FMR1 (fragile X) gene (genetic etiology) and in association with a variety of autoimmune conditions (autoimmune etiology). To what degree milder forms of premature ovarian aging are also associated with these two etiologies is, however, unknown.
We investigated the influence of hormone therapy (HT) on submaximal central and peripheral function in healthy postmenopausal women after 12 weeks of endurance training.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence and associated risk factors of urinary incontinence (UI) in Chinese women.
The aim of this study was to determine whether frequent onion consumption is associated with increased bone density in perimenopausal and postmenopausal non-Hispanic white women 50 years and older.
Observational and experimental studies support that osteoporosis and atherosclerosis are two related phenomena. The aim of the present study was to investigate the probable effect of alendronate sodium, which is used in the treatment of osteoporosis, on carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT), the lipid profile, and apolipoprotein A-I (ApoA-I) and apolipoprotein B (ApoB) levels, which are known to have a role in the atherosclerotic process.
The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and distribution of menopausal symptoms among women in Ibadan in the 4-week period preceding the survey and factors associated with these symptoms.
The aim of this study was to evaluate low-dose synthetic conjugated estrogens A (SCE-A) cream administered twice weekly for the treatment of moderate to severe vulvovaginal atrophy (VVA) in a symptomatic postmenopausal population.
Among women with breast cancer, hot flashes are frequent, severe, and bothersome symptoms that can negatively impact quality of life and compromise compliance with life-saving medications (eg, tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors). Clinicians' abilities to treat hot flashes are limited due to inadequate understanding of physiological mechanisms involved in hot flashes. Using an acute tryptophan depletion paradigm, we tested whether alterations in central serotonin levels were involved in the induction of hot flashes in women with breast cancer.
The present study examined the association between body composition measurements, using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry and anthropometry, with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in nonosteoporotic, postmenopausal women.
The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between perimenopausal memory complaints and performance on objective neuropsychological tests. A secondary aim was to determine if putative deficits are related to other relevant factors, such as hormone levels, mood state, or sleep quality.
A hot flash is a general postmenopausal symptom experienced by approximately 75% of climacteric women. Women often turn to complementary and alternative medicines to relieve hot flashes. Moxibustion is one such medication. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of moxibustion on hot flashes in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women.
Cortisol levels rise among some women during the late stage of the menopausal transition (MT), but we know little about changes in cortisol levels in relation to menopause-related factors (MT stage, urinary estrone glucuronide [E1G], testosterone, follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH]), stress-related factors (epinephrine, norepinephrine, and perceived stress), symptoms (hot flashes, mood, memory, and sleep), social factors (income adequacy, role burden, social support, employment, parenting, and history of sexual abuse), and health-related factors (depressed mood, perceived health, physical appraisal, body mass index, and smoking). The aim of the study was to examine the influence of menopause-related factors, stress-related factors, symptoms, social factors, and health-related factors on cortisol levels during the MT.
The aim of this study was to examine interactions between hot flushes, estrogen plus progestogen therapy (EPT), and coronary heart disease (CHD) events in postmenopausal women with CHD.
Clinical assessment of androgen action and its correlation to testosterone levels in women has been challenging. The current gold standard for measuring biologically active testosterone (T) is serum free T by equilibrium dialysis. Alternative methods are desirable due to the cost, complexity, and limited availability of the equilibrium dialysis method. Salivary testing has been proposed as a possible substitute for serum testing. This study compared salivary versus serum measurements of total T (TT), bioavailable T (BT; consisting of free T [FT] and albumin-bound T), and FT from samples collected simultaneously in women who were either receiving transdermal T patch supplementation (300 microg/d) or a placebo patch.
Atrophic Papanicolaou (Pap) smears from postmenopausal women may be unsatisfactory for assessment or result in a false-positive diagnosis of a cytological abnormality. We investigated the effect of vaginal estrogen treatment before the Pap test on the odds of an atrophic smear.
Outcomes from the Women's Health Initiative have demonstrated adverse effects associated with hormone therapy and have prioritized the need to develop new alternative treatments for the management of menopause and osteoporosis. To this end, we have been investigating natural herbal medicines used by Costa Rican women to manage menopausal symptoms.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose conjugated estrogens (CE) cream for treatment of atrophic vaginitis.
Hot flashes are valuable indicators of physiological condition and drug effect; however, subjective and objective measures do not always agree. No study has examined both subjective and objective hot flashes in women prescribed aromatase inhibitors. The study (1) compared subjective and objective hot flash measures, (2) examined changes in subjective and objective hot flashes over time, and (3) evaluated predictors of change in hot flashes in aromatase inhibitor-treated women.
The aim of this study was to evaluate predictors of the placebo response in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of a phytotherapeutic combination for the treatment of menopausal symptoms.
To develop a simple, pragmatic, and widely applicable grouping/staging system for gliomas, the most common primary brain tumor.
To summarize the experience of microsurgical treatment of brainstem cavernomas and to investigate curative effect of microsurgical treatment of brainstem cavernomas.
To evaluate the clinical, radiological and surgical outcome of 40 focal 'intrinsic' brainstem gliomas and propose a surgical strategy-oriented classification.
To assess the incidence, clinical presentation and disease course of patients with AMAN.
This work presents the evaluation of B-CSFB dysfunction with respect to the course, severity, and clinical features of GBS.
To overcome the shortcomings of baclofen IR, two modified formulations, baclofen sustained release (SR) and gastric retentive system (GRS), have been proposed to be equivalent in efficacy to baclofen IR with the administration of a single daily dose.
To study the efficacy of gabapentin in patients with CTS. The study aim is to investigate the efficacy of gabapentin in patients with CTS patients who were refractory to the other conservative measures or unwilling for the surgical procedure.
We hypothesized that mesalamine considering its better safety profile, is likely to be a better choice, if it would be as effective as ibuprofen in controlling post-discectomy pain.
This paper reflects on the language and translation challenges faced and interventions used whilst undertaking cross-cultural public health research in Nepal using translators.
To conduct a secondary analysis on interview data collected for the Day Services Evaluation Study in order to understand how patients and their carers use descriptive words and metaphor when talking about their experiences of palliative day services.
To analyse the TTO method in patients with mental disorders in terms of discriminative ability, validity and the refusal to trade life time (zero trade).
To evaluate the clinical and economic outcomes associated with early versus late use of vancomycin in the management of patients hospitalized for cSSSIs.
To learn about the use of various chewing substrates, such as areca nut and gutka, among subjects with oral submucosal fibrosis (OSMF) and controls with no oral mucosal lesions.
To evaluate the histopathological changes in mechanically exposed dog pulps capped with three self-etching adhesive systems.
To determine the effect of delayed start of light polymerization of a dual-cured composite base on the microleakage of Class 2 open-sandwich composite restorations.
The use of connective tissue grafts is a proven, effective treatment modality. This study examines whether harvesting connective tissue grafts from the palate causes persistent sensory dysfunction.
Restorative procedures of the dentin-pulp complex stimulate damages that, depending on the technique and materials used, may induce pulpal reactions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate immunochemistry, morphologic, and morphometric pulpal alterations of human teeth pulps capped with self-etching or total-etching adhesive systems.
The Volpe and Manhold Index (VMI) was used to evaluate the anticalculus efficacy of the dentifrice Fluor Kin antisarro, used on adults twice a day for 2 minutes over 3 months, in comparison with the dentifrice Lacer.
To determine whether embrasure morphology can affect the association between bone crest-contact point distance and central papilla height in esthetic dentistry.
To assess the accuracy of fit of frameworks on implants processed with electrical discharge machining (EDM) or the Cresco technique (Astra Tech).
Lidocaine has been reported to be more neurotoxic than other local anesthetics. Alternatives to lidocaine with lower toxicity and shorter duration of action are desirable. Therefore, we compared the histologic and functional changes induced by intrathecal injection of prilocaine, mepivacaine, procaine, and bupivacaine in rats.
Sacroiliac (SI) joint pain is a challenging condition characterized by limited treatment options. Recently, numerous studies have reported excellent intermediate-term outcomes after lateral-branch radiofrequency (RF) denervation, but these studies are characterized by wide variability in technique, selection criteria, and patient characteristics. The purpose of this study was to determine whether any demographic or clinical variables can be used to predict SI joint RF denervation outcome.
The aim of this study was to determine the minimum effective anesthetic volume required to produce an effective supraclavicular block for surgical anesthesia using an ultrasound (US)-guided technique.
Epidural anesthesia is a technically challenging regional anesthetic technique that can be difficult to teach to novices. Epidural simulators are now available to allow realistic training within a safe and controlled environment before attempting the procedure on patients. Potentially, this may improve skill acquisition by novice residents. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of a high-fidelity epidural anesthesia simulator on residents' ability to perform their first labor epidurals and on their learning curve compared with a group having training with a low-fidelity model.
Nerve blocks using local anesthetics are widely used. High volumes are usually injected, which may predispose patients to associated adverse events. Introduction of ultrasound guidance facilitates the reduction of volume, but the minimal effective volume is unknown. In this study, we estimated the 50% effective dose (ED50) and 95% effective dose (ED95) volume of 1% mepivacaine relative to the cross-sectional area of the nerve for an adequate sensory block.
The aim of this study was to compare the accuracy of local anesthetic placement in the rectus sheath block when performed by trainee anesthetists using loss of resistance (LOR) or ultrasound guidance.
In this retrospective study, we queried our Quality Improvement database of anesthetic-related complications to evaluate the frequency of noncatheter peripheral nerve block-related adverse occurrences. We hypothesized that adverse complications of nerve blockade are less common when ultrasonography is used in conjunction with peripheral nerve stimulation to guide needle placement, when compared with the sole use of physical landmarks and nerve stimulation.
For knee surgery, obturator nerve block (ONB) has been shown to enhance postoperative analgesia provided by femoral block. Current techniques for obturator block use surface landmarks or ultrasound guidance (USG) with nerve stimulation. This preliminary observational study evaluated the success of an ultrasound-guided ONB without the additional use of nerve stimulation.
To assess the feasibility of ultrasound (US) in visualizing the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve (LFCN) in a cadaver and 8 volunteers.
The aim of this study was to demonstrate the connection types and frequency between the accessory nerve and the posterior roots of the C2-C6 cervical nerves.
To build a three-dimensional (3D) visible model of human liver and provide visualization of precise anatomical structures for making plans for hepatic operations and obtain accurate simulation of liver on computer.
To describe a new technique to help localize life threatening colorectal bleeding during nuclear medicine bleeding scan to aid in selective angiography.
To explore the effect of unmethylated CpG motif containing oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG ODN) on the function of dendritic cells (DCs) in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB).
To explore the effect of early hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) on neuronal apoptosis and learning and memory in rats treated with cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in 30 min.
To investigate the surgical management of infected pseudoaneurysms of femoral artery caused by narcotics injection.
To establish the protein expression map of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), and provide a basis for proteomic study of NPC.
To characterize the hemodynamic changes of chronic congestive heart failure(CHF) model induced by rapid right ventricular pacing after myocardial infarction in awake Beagle dogs.
To investigate the role of Notch signaling in differentiation of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat retinal progenitor cells (RPCs).
To identify the genetic characteristics in patients with nonsydromic hearing loss (NSHL) in Hunan province, to determine the prevalence and spectrum of mutations in GJB2 gene, and to explore the pathogenic mechanism.
To explore posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) positive screening and factors influencing the mental state in victims who were evacuated/were not evacuated from Wenchuan earthquake area within 1 month.
To identify the function of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) mutation in the genesis of human glioma.
To determine the effect of arsenic trioxide combined with adriamycin(ADM) on the proliferation and apoptosis of human lymphoma cells.
To explore the clinical and pathologic features of angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma(AITL) and provide evidence for diagnosis.
To investigate the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on cervical carcinoma and its association with clinical data.
To investigate the spatiotemporal expression of neuromedin B receptor (NMBR) in mice myometrium at different pregnant stages, as well as its mechanism and relation with parturition.
To detect the active efflux gene qac gene in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) by hem-nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and to learn the carrier condition of qac gene.
To explore and evaluate the characteristics of spectra wave shapes and parameters of the superior vena cava (SVC) Doppler flow patterns in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension(PAH) by echocardiography.
To determine the effect of Tongxinluo on the endothelial function and hypersensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in acute coronary syndrome patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention(PCI).
To explore the immunoregulatory effect of Huangqi Fuzhengtang on immunosuppressive mice.
To determine whether serum adipocytokines and leptin level are associated with bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal women.
To determine the effect of alendronate on glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis(GIO).
The National Institute of Mental Health's effort to rectify the underrepresentation of American Blacks in the genetic studies of psychiatric disorders has met with mixed success. This study was designed to understand some of the barriers to recruitment.
Thrombophilia may cause severe complications in cardiac surgical patients. We analyzed our experience with symptomatic factor V Leiden patients.
To review the literature for methods to increase the efficacy and tolerability of benzoyl peroxide (BPO).
To study the prevalence of NAFLD in those patients attending the routine health checkup and to establish a relationship between NAFLD and metabolic syndrome.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is commonly associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) though its prevalence is not well studied. We conducted a prospective study of prevalence and risk factors of NAFLD in patients with type 2 diabetes.
To explore participants' experiences of kidney transplant failure.
To describe parents' experiences parenting a school-aged child after heart transplant.
To explore the relationships among the health status of caregivers of lung transplant candidates, caregivers' reaction to caregiving, and caregivers' perceived quality of life.
To identify patients' perceptions of their knowledge gaps and identify ways to improve current approaches to patient education.
To explore the medication-taking behavior of successful kidney transplant recipients and determine what behaviors were common among this group.
To examine the sources of organ donation information identified by donor and nondonor families who participated in a large-scale study to examine factors that influence organ donation decisions.
To test the Rapid Assessment of Hospital Procurement Barriers in Donation (RAPiD), a direct observation technique with a focused ethnographic strategy, for assessing hospitals' donation processes and identifying areas in need of continuous quality improvement interventions.
To summarize the clinical experience in repair of deep burn and traumatic wounds with combined transplantation of different types of pedicled skin flaps in lower extremities.
To explore the methods of repair of massive deep skin and soft tissue injuries.
To explore an appropriate measure to repair tissue defects and deformities in mandibulo-cervical region.
To explore repair methods of skin and soft tissue defects in lower extremities with free latissimus dorsi flaps.
To evaluate the effect of insular pectoralis major myocutaneous flap on repair of jaw and neck tissue defect as a result of high-voltage electric burn.
To observe the clinical effect of reverse island skin flaps with sural nerve and blood supplying vessels on repair of tissue defect of lower leg and foot.
To investigate the relationship between intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) mediated by connexin 40/43( Cx40/43) of VSMC and endothelium-dependent vascular contractive response of superior mesenteric arteries (SMA) in hemorrhagic shock rats.
To investigate the effect of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1) vshRNA vector on expression of inflammatory cytokines and survival rate in septic mice infected by Bacteroides fragilis.
To investigate changes in apoptosis-related ligands in serum in rats with severe scald and the effect of intensive insulin therapy on the changes.
To observe changes of learning and memory ability (LMA) in burn rats with depression, and study the relationship between LMA and expression of hippocampal NMDA.
To investigate the role of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) induced TGF-beta 1 in the transdifferentiation of human hypertrophic scar fibroblast (HSFb).
To observe the effect of mastoparan-1 (MP-1) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute hepatic injury in mice and probe into its possible mechanism.
To study the role of myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) in intestinal epithelial barrier dysfunction after hypoxia.
To examine the epidemiology of match injuries in southern hemisphere professional rugby union and assess the impact of the International Rugby Board (IRB) Experimental Law Variations.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of vasectomy performed under local anaesthesia by junior doctors at a secondary level hospital as part of a free family planning service.
Recent advances in full blood count and CD4 technology, coupled with the changing population demographics of the Gauteng region, have necessitated reevaluation of the reference ranges currently in use.
An effective vaccine is needed to protect against severe rotavirus disease, an important cause of gastroenteritis. Since there are no data on the incidence and antigenic diversity of rotavirus infection in Sierra Leone, we studied its epidemiology to enable an effective vaccine strategy to be designed.
Measles was virtually eliminated in South Africa following control activities in 1996/7. However, from July 2003 to November 2005, 1676 laboratory-confirmed measles cases were reported in South Africa. We investigated the outbreak's cause and the role of HIV.
To determine the cost of care for inpatients and outpatients at a dedicated antiretroviral referral unit treating and caring for antiretroviral-related conditions in a South African peri-urban setting; to identify key epidemiological cost drivers; and to examine the associated clinical and outcome data.
To determine the frequency of metabolic syndrome, overweight, obesity and risk of developing metabolic syndrome in workers at Kanye Seventh-day Adventist Hospital, Kanye, Botswana.
To describe the demographic correlates of perceived discrimination and explore the association between perceived discrimination and psychiatric disorders.
To elucidate characteristics in generation-to-generation TB transmission from smear positive pulmonary TB patients.
To evaluate tuberculosis index case, group contact investigation and usefulness of tuberculin skin test (TST) results.
This study was performed to examine job stressors, job readiness, and subjective health status as factors associated with intentions to leave among newly graduated nurses (NGNs) in advanced treatment hospitals in Japan.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the psychological implications of emotionally enriching childbirth experiences for problems such as awareness of motherhood, postnatal depression, and parenting stress among women after childbirth.
The aim of this study was to examine ambulance usage due to fall accidents in Kochi City.
Toxicity concerns and awareness during anesthesia issues continue to concern pediatric anesthesiologists. Most developmental pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and pharmacogenomic changes occur within the first year of life. Understanding these early changes can improve drug use in this cohort.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of 'scheduled' analgesia with analgesia 'on request in patients after craniotomy.
Inhaled anaesthetics have been studied regarding their genotoxic and mutagenic potential in vivo. Propofol differs from volatile anaesthetics because it does not show mutagenic effects and it has been reported to be an antioxidant. However, there are no studies with propofol and genotoxicity in vivo. The study aimed to evaluate the hypothesis that propofol is not genotoxic and it inhibits lipid peroxidation [malondialdehyde (MDA)] in patients undergoing propofol anaesthesia.
The aim of the present study was to compare the new combination of intraarticular + subacromial injection, with intraarticular, subacromial injection and interscalenic brachial plexus block as postoperative analgesia in shoulder arthroscopy.
To develop a multiattribute decision model (MADM) to aid in the selection of preferred medications for the treatment of bipolar disorder.
To test the association between integrated workplace health and pharmacy care and medication adherence.
To review the fasting lipid panel changes that occurred after removing higher potency statins from a prescription formulary.
To examine whether adherence to osteoporosis medications can be improved by educational interventions targeted at primary care physicians (PCPs) and patients.
To evaluate the use of automated systems to prompt patients with diabetes mellitus to obtain overdue laboratory tests for its effectiveness in promoting test compliance and to compare letters, telephone messages, and combinations.
To examine the association of medication adherence with healthcare use and costs among Medicaid beneficiaries with congestive heart failure (CHF), to investigate whether the association was a graded one, and to estimate the potential savings due to improved adherence.
To assess whether lower copayments charged for generic drugs explain the improved drug adherence associated with use of generics.
To propose standardized methods for measuring concurrent adherence to multiple related medications and to apply these definitions to a cohort of patients with diabetes mellitus.
Various treatment options for IgA nephropathy (IgAN) have been developed, particularly over the past decade. Nevertheless, whether such therapeutic interventions improve actual renal outcome as compared with previous therapies remains obscure.
Preeclampsia is a hypertensive disorder which develops de novo in women during pregnancy. The urinary excretion of the cardiotonic steroid, marinobufagenin (MBG), is increased prior to the development of hypertension. Preeclamptic patients are volume expanded but much of the excess salt and water appears to be located primarily in the interstitial space. Therefore, 'capillary leak' syndrome has been postulated in this disorder.
National Kidney Foundation Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI) guidelines aim to slow chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression and reduce morbidity and mortality. This study aimed to assess current CKD population health and adherence to recommendations in National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2004 participants aged &gt;or=20 years (n = 14,213).
There is limited information about the association of anemia with 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] deficiency and inflammation in the setting of decreased kidney function in the general population.
It has been shown that blockade of TGF-beta1 signaling with Smad7 prevents experimental peritoneal fibrosis. The present study investigated whether Smad7 has a therapeutic effect on established peritoneal fibrosis associated with peritoneal dialysis (PD).
This article documents the percent of patients receiving follow-up within 60 days of a positive CRC screening fecal occult blood test (FOBT) and identifies improvement strategies that predict timely follow-up.
To assess influenza vaccination coverage among adults with asthma in the United States.
Research is described and mechanisms identified that are used to promote social smoking to help improve cessation strategies in this growing group.
A systematic review was conducted of interventions with physical activity and parental components among healthy youth to identify how best to involve parents in physical activity interventions for children.
To investigate whether filaggrin gene defects, present in up to one in 10 western Europeans and North Americans, increase the risk of developing allergic sensitisation and allergic disorders.
To estimate the extent of overdiagnosis (the detection of cancers that will not cause death or symptoms) in publicly organised screening programmes.
To evaluate the effectiveness of an unsupervised proprioceptive training programme on recurrences of ankle sprain after usual care in athletes who had sustained an acute sports related injury to the lateral ankle ligament.
To describe factors which influence the current working patterns of orthodontists in the United Kingdom.
Latinas and African-Americans with breast cancer, especially those of lower socioeconomic status and acculturation, have been underrepresented in studies assessing treatment satisfaction, decision-making, and quality of life. A study was designed to recruit a large and representative sample of these subgroups.
High-risk human papilloma virus (HPV) plays a role in the development of a subset of vulvar squamous cell carcinomas. Uncertainty exists about the true impact of HPV in this tumor type because conflicting reports have been published with diverging prevalence rates. This study was done to fine tune the role of high-risk HPV infection in vulvar squamous cell carcinoma development in relation to clinical prognosis.
In this study, we tested whether Egr-1 is a potential target of calcium channel blockers in cardioprotection with I/R injury.
Cell membranes facilitate the transport of water, ions, and necessary nutrients by hosting a great variety of transport channels that have either a 'simple' pore-like structure or more complex architecture that is based on the utilization of specific receptors. The present study reveals the impact of AgNO3, a well-known inhibitor of water channel activity, on transport channels that emerge at the membrane of intact red blood cells (iRBCs).
A comparative analysis was performed of the properties of cloned AT1 and AT2 receptors and their ability to induce ion currents and oocyte maturation.
Induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells have a developmental potential similar to that of blastocyst-derived embryonic stem (ES) cells and may serve as an autologous source of cells for tissue repair, in vitro disease modelling and toxicity assays. Here we aimed at generating iPS cell-derived cardiomyocytes (CMs) and comparing their molecular and functional characteristics with CMs derived from native murine ES cells.
Advanced oxidation protein products (AOPPs), a novel marker for oxidative protein damage, regulated cell behavior in many cell types. Although previous reports have revealed that oxidative stress resulted in an increased AOPPs content in cultured osteoblast-like cells, the effects of AOPPs on osteoblast-like cell function remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effect of AOPPs on the proliferation and differentiation of rat osteoblast-like (ROB) cells in vitro.
Chronic pain after hysterectomy is reported by 5% to 32% of women, but it is unknown whether the pain is a result of surgery or can be attributable to other factors such as preoperative and postoperative pain, physical, and psychosocial status. The aim of this prospective study was therefore to study the role of surgery and other possible predictors for pain 4 months after hysterectomy.
We report a randomized, double-blinded comparative study assessing the efficacy of local anesthetic with N-saline intradermal blocks around the knee to reduce pain and improve patient satisfaction while waiting for a total knee joint replacement.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a severe chronic pain condition characterized by sensory, autonomic, motor, and dystrophic signs and symptoms. This study was undertaken to expand our current knowledge of the evolution of CRPS signs and symptoms with duration of disease.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the relative efficacy of nortriptyline and self-applied transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) in the treatment of pain and/or sensory complaints of the upper extremities in people with multiple sclerosis (MS).
To replicate and extend previous research concerning the validity and utility of using pain quality measures in clinical trials.
Managing multiple chronic health conditions is a significant challenge. The purpose of this study was to examine the experience and management of chronic pain among adult patients with other complex chronic conditions, specifically diabetes and heart failure (HF).
The current study investigated the daily relationship between pain, activity restriction, and depression in children and adolescents with chronic pain, and compared participants' responses on diary and retrospective assessment measures.
There is a dearth of information on the experience of pain in persons living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and cooccurring psychologic and substance use problems. This study examined the prevalence and correlates of pain in 162 HIV-positive persons diagnosed with mood and/or anxiety disorders and substance use disorders.
To project the national burdens of low back, hip, and knee pains in Japan from 2005 to 2055 in terms of quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
Chronic neck pain is a common problem and is treated using a variety of conservative treatments. This single-blind, randomized, sham-controlled trial investigated the value of adding electrical stimulation of acupuncture points on the wrist to a standardized program of neck exercises for chronic neck pain.
To investigate the efficacy of acupuncture compared with steroid treatment in patients with mild-to-moderate carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) as measured by objective changes in nerve conduction studies (NCS) and subjective symptoms assessment in a randomized, controlled study.
To evaluate the details and effects of an individualized homeopathic treatment in patients with chronic low back pain in usual care.
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of brief screening questions for psychosocial risk factors predictive of poor outcome from an episode of pain.
To evaluate the association between types of carotid plaque, the presence of prior ischaemic events detectable with CT, and patient's symptoms.
To describe the image findings and results of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) or transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) for treating primary hepatic angiosarcoma.
To determine the depth of the posterior costophrenic sulcus (CPS) on posteroanterior (PA) chest radiography in relation to the diaphragmatic dome and lateral CPS.
To report the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features of intracranial cystic meningiomas and compare these features in intra- and peritumoural cyst groups.
To review the outcome of vacuum-assisted removal of breast papillomas performed in the Bolton Breast Unit.
To determine whether radiographers are able to perform and interpret barium swallows and meals (BSM) to an acceptable standard.
We investigated the effect of ranolazine on endothelial-dependent vasodilatation (EDV), serum markers of endothelial dysfunction, and inflammation.
Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) play a key role in maintenance of endothelial integrity and postnatal neovascularization. We verified whether the number of subpopulations of EPCs is different in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and normal or impaired left ventricular (LV) function.
The aim of this study is to investigate the potential role of functional myeloperoxidase (MPO) promoter polymorphisms in the occurrence of myocardial infarction (MI) in the Stockholm Heart Epidemiology Program.
Bivalirudin, a direct thrombin inhibitor, provides similar ischemic outcomes with significantly less major bleeding compared with unfractionated heparin (UFH) plus a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (GPI) in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). Although the approved labeling for bivalirudin allows for low-dose prolonged postprocedure administration, this practice is not routine. Therefore, we sought to evaluate the safety and efficacy of longer post-PCI infusion.
Total exercise duration and abnormal QRS score values are treadmill exercise testing (TET) prognostic parameters that have been shown to be significantly and independently associated with cardiac mortality. We evaluated the prognostic value of a new index (M score, Michaelides score) incorporating TET duration and QRS score values in a simple index.
We hypothesized that the plaque composition and plaque type classification differs between acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and stable angina (SA) patients.
In this commentary we summarize the health risks of climate change in the United States and examine the extent of federal funding devoted to understanding, avoiding, preparing for, and responding to the human health risks of climate change.
Traditional hazards such as poor sanitation currently account for most of Africa's environmentally related disease burden. However, with rapid development absent appropriate safeguards for environment and health, modern environmental health hazards (MEHHs) may emerge as critical contributors to the continent's disease burden. We review recent evidence of human exposure to and health effects from MEHHs, and their occurrence in environmental media and consumer products. Our purpose is to highlight the growing significance of these hazards as African countries experience urbanization, industrial growth, and development.
Concern for children exposed to elemental mercury prompted the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to review the sources of elemental mercury exposures in children, describe the location and proportion of children affected, and make recommendations on how to prevent these exposures. In this review, we excluded mercury exposures from coal-burning facilities, dental amalgams, fish consumption, medical waste incinerators, or thimerosal-containing vaccines.
In this study we investigated whether prenatal BPA causes long-term adverse effects in female reproductive tissues in an experimental animal model previously shown useful in studying effects of prenatal DES.
In this study we examined the benefits of using aerosol optical depth (AOD) retrieved by the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) in conjunction with land use and meteorologic information to estimate ground-level PM(2.5) concentrations.
These observations prompt a number of questions about the health impact of exposure to elevated levels of PM(10-2.5) and PM(2.5) and about the specific toxicity of PM arising from wildfires in this region.
We evaluated the degree to which AOD can help predict long-term average PM(2.5) concentrations for use in chronic health studies.
Based on the reported endocrine disruptor activity of this polyphenol, we hypothesized that exposure to BPA early in life would elicit developmental changes in the mammary tissue and cause a predisposition for mammary cancer.
We administered parathion to neonatal rats and then evaluated whether a high-fat diet begun in adulthood could reverse the effects on ACh systems.
We investigated possible associations between PFAAs and testicular function. We hypothesized that higher PFAA levels would be associated with lower semen quality and lower testosterone levels.
Our goal was to identify candidate protein biomarkers of effect for estrogenic compounds.
We hypothesized that PM(2.5) influences postural changes in systolic blood pressure (DeltaSBP) and in diastolic blood pressure (DeltaDBP) and that this effect is modified by genes thought to be related to chronic lung disease.
In this study, we used 3-T MRS to investigate brain metabolism in workers chronically exposed to lead and matched nonexposed controls.
We statistically tested whether human metabolism of benzene is better fitted by a kinetic model having two pathways rather than one.
Since a previous report of surveillance findings in 2004, an improved methodology for determination of the isotopic ratio of U in urine ((235)U:(238)U) has been developed and allows for more definitive evaluation of DU exposure. This report updates previous findings.
In this study we investigated the association between hospital admission for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and respiratory disease and the chemical components of PM(2.5) in the United States.
In this study, our goals were to describe trends in post-9/11 respiratory and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptoms in WTC-exposed firefighters and to examine symptom progression in the cohort that completed both year 1 and year 4 questionnaires.
The objective of this study was to identify genes and gene networks perturbed by arsenic during development in order to enhance understanding of the molecular mechanisms of arsenic action.
Lung autopsy specimens from consecutive coroner's cases of Hispanic males in Fresno County, California, (n = 112) were obtained to determine whether mineral dust exposure in agricultural work leads to pneumoconiosis.
Our aim was to study the association of the variation in local concentrations of airborne particulate matter (PM) with aerodynamic diameter &lt; 10 mum, carbon monoxide, nitrogen monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and ozone with platelet aggregation, thrombin generation, fibrinogen, and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in healthy individuals.
We aimed to evaluate parental exposure to pesticides at home and on the job in relation to the occurrence of brain cancer in children.
We used carpet dust as an exposure indicator to examine the risk of childhood leukemia in relation to residential exposure to persistent organochlorine chemicals: six polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners and the pesticides alpha- and gamma-chlordane, p,p'-DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane), p,p'-DDE (dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene), methoxychlor, and pentachlorophenol.
In this study we examined the relationship between exposure to potential thyroid hormone-disrupting toxicants and thyroid hormone status in pregnant Inuit women from Nunavik and their infants within the first year of life.
Many people flee their countries of origin after suffering severe trauma and there is a need to explore how socio-cultural factors are implicated in the experience of both trauma and posttraumatic growth. Interpreters who have been through a trauma are in a unique position to be able to reflect on cultural context. This study explored how interpreters working in the UK who had formerly suffered trauma in their country of origin, and who identified themselves as coping well, managed their experience of trauma.
To examine the health status of adults from black and minority ethnic groups and from a socio-economically mixed White population, all resident in England.
The present study examined relationships between ethnicity and satisfaction with care in a sample of 759 patients diagnosed with three different types of cancer (lung, head and neck, or gynecologic) from a large tertiary cancer hospital.
To determine a high-risk group of visible minority women in Canada who do not participate in cervical cancer screening and the reasons why they do not participate.
To evaluate the impact of intensive promotion of a new health service to a targeted refugee population, recently resettled in Sydney, and the role of early social connection and membership of social group in promoting health service utilisation of refugees.
To document the causal association of iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) and intracranial hypertension (IH).
To evaluate the usefulness of a new instrument for bedside testing of proximal arm and distal finger tapping performance in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
The purpose of this study was to investigate the degree of agreement among parents, teachers and adolescents with respect to the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL), the Teacher's Report Form (TRF), and the Youth Self Report (YSR). In addition we evaluated the suitability of these three forms (CBCL, TRF and YSR) in terms of their contribution to understanding internalizing and externalizing disorders in youths being referred to a child and adolescent unit of a psychiatric care facility.
The aim of the present study is to see if the changes in the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) experienced by restrictive anorexia nervosa (AR) and bulimia nervosa (BN) patients, following the exposure to their own body image, persist at follow-up.
To evaluate the performance of the French version of the Mood Disorder Questionnaire (MDQ) in patients attending a general psychiatric outpatient service as well as whether MDQ scores are independent of patient mood state at time of completion.
To identify the presence of factors associated with treatment outcome in patients under group cognitive-behavioral therapy (GCBT) for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
Observational studies have reported earlier onset of psychosis in schizophrenic patients with a history of cannabis use. Earlier age of onset of schizophrenia has been associated with a poorer outcome. We aimed to examine whether cannabis use determined an earlier onset of schizophrenia in a sample of first episode patients, in an area with one of Europe's highest rates of cannabis use.
Patients with affective disorders are at high risk of suicide, especially during inpatient treatment and during the first year after discharge.
Radiofrequency thermal ablation (RFA) has shown promise as a technique for treating solid tumors. This method has been suggested as an alternative to surgery in patients with adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC).
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of the endoplasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis in experimental diabetic nephropathy. The effects of ACE inhibitor on the endoplasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis were also assessed.
To describe changes in insulin treatment in children and adolescents in Germany/Austria regarding short acting (SA)- and long acting (LA) insulin analogues in different age groups over the last twelve years.
To evaluate the effects of manidipine versus amlodipine on blood pressure, albuminuria, insulin sensitivity, adiponectin, TNF-alpha and C-reactive protein in nondiabetic subjects with metabolic syndrome (ATP-III definition), including impaired fasting glucose (&gt;5.6 mmol/l) and hypertension.
Glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) has been shown to improve intestinal absorption in short bowel syndrome (SBS) patients in a short-term study. This study describes safety, compliance, and changes in quality of life in 11 SBS patients at baseline, week 13, 26, and 52 during two years of subcutaneous GLP-2 treatment, 400 microgram TID, intermitted by an 8-week washout period.
Non-operative management (NOM) of blunt liver trauma is currently, if possible, the preferred treatment of choice. The present study evaluates the experience of blunt liver injury in adults in a Swedish university hospital.
This paper reviews current knowledge on minimally invasive pancreatic necrosectomy.
This study was conducted to evaluate the added value of an enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) programme in laparoscopic liver resections for solid tumours.
We describe technical modifications to Cattell's technique for pancreaticojejunostomy (PJ), with buttressing of 'soft' pancreases and use of an isolated biliopancreatic loop for reconstruction following a PD.
Percutaneous cholecystostomy (PC) is an established low-mortality treatment option for elderly and critically ill patients with acute cholecystitis. The primary aim of this review is to find out if there is any evidence in the literature to recommend PC rather than cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis in the elderly population.
Distal pancreatectomy (DP) is performed for a range of benign and malignant lesions. Accurate pre-operative diagnosis can be unreliable and morbidity remains high. This study evaluates a 12-year, single-centre experience with open DP to review indications, diagnoses and associated morbidity.
This study aimed to illustrate the indications for, and types and outcomes of surgical portosystemic shunt (PSS) and/or Rex bypass in a single centre.
This study aimed to evaluate if the Gyrus open forceps is a safe and efficient tool for hepatic parenchymal transection.
Non-syndromic orofacial clefts, i.e. cleft lip (CL) and cleft palate (CP), are among the most common birth defects. The goal of this study was to identify genomic regions and genes for CL with or without CP (CL/P).
Accurate sex-specific genetic maps are essential for gene mapping projects when using multipoint methods, especially for the pseudoautosomal regions (PARs). This paper describes a new sex-specific genetic map for the human PARs.
To test whether case-control-based familial aggregation studies produce estimates of risk to relatives that are inherently biased or confounded by age and family size, and to compare case-control-derived estimates with those from the reconstructed cohort method. In addition, we test if the definition of family history affects the accuracy of results obtained from either design. We use simulated data, which allows us to know the true data origin.
While multiple lines of evidence suggest the importance of genetic contributors to risk of preterm birth, the nature of the genetic component has not been identified. We perform segregation analyses to identify the best fitting genetic model for gestational age, a quantitative proxy for preterm birth.
To describe the content and preliminary results of a quality improvement project in primary care, aiming at improving the uptake of clinical depression guidelines in daily practice as well as the collaboration between different mental health professionals.
Description of a collaborative care model for major depressive disorder (MDD) and of the factors influencing its implementation in the primary care setting in the Netherlands.
The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry was established in 1989 to collect data on birth defects after pregnancy exposures to antiretroviral therapy. Using Registry data, this study estimates the birth defect risk after pregnancy exposures to lopinavir/ritonavir.
We aim to estimate how changes in sterile syringe distribution through needle-syringe programs (NSPs) may affect HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) incidence among injecting drug users (IDUs) in Australia.
To examine the efficacy of behavioral interventions to reduce HIV for African Americans among 78 randomized controlled trials that sampled at least 50% African Americans (N = 48,585, 81% African American), measured condom use or number of sexual partners, and provided sufficient information to calculate effect sizes.
To determine risk factor for non-AIDS severe clinical events in HIV-infected patients on long-term combination antiretroviral therapy (cART).
To determine the safety and efficacy of changing enfuvirtide to raltegravir in HIV-1-infected patients with HIV-1 RNA below the level of quantification for at least 6 months on an enfuvirtide-containing antiretroviral regimen.
Natural killer (NK) cells most likely contribute toward limiting HIV-1 replication, and investigation into their function throughout the course of infection is therefore important. We here aimed to determine the state of the NK cell compartment in Ugandans with untreated HIV-1 clade A or D infection in comparison with matched uninfected controls.
Antimalarial combination therapy is used in persons with HIV infection in the absence of data on drug interactions. The objective of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of antimalarial combination artemether/lumefantrine (AL) when administered with the protease inhibitor combination lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) in HIV-uninfected healthy volunteers to determine if important drug interactions exist between these agents.
Our purpose was to characterize the pattern and distribution of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) to more precisely define phenotypic expression and its clinical implications in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).
This study sought to clarify the frequency, clinical phenotype, and prognosis of those patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) who present with a normal electrocardiogram (ECG).
The purpose of this study was to characterize the prognosis of minimally symptomatic patients with obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).
In hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) patients undergoing surgical myectomy, we sought to determine the association between pre-operative cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) findings, small intramural coronary arteriole dysplasia (SICAD) on histopathology, and ventricular tachycardia (VT).
This study was designed to review outcomes of pediatric isolated hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) managed uniformly at a single institution and assess whether reported adult risk factors for sudden death are predictive in pediatric HCM.
The aim of the study was to determine if patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), both with and without myocardial fibrosis, have altered aortic stiffness as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) pulse wave velocity (PWV) measurements.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of everolimus-eluting stents (EES) in comparison with bare-metal stents (BMS), sirolimus-eluting stents (SES), and paclitaxel-eluting stents (PES) on the 6-month clinical outcomes in an all-comer population.
To provide an overview of supply and demand issues in the vaccine industry and the policy options that have been implemented to resolve these issues.
To examine the effect of organization-level factors on sustainability of pharmacy-based in-house immunization services.
To apply a previously validated patient satisfaction questionnaire within rural community telepharmacies in an effort to identify the underlying factors determining satisfaction with those services and to assess whether the latent structure(s) of patient satisfaction varies depending on delivery mode or communityspecific factors.
To examine the prevalence and patterns of nonmedical use of prescription opioid analgesics and stimulants among student pharmacists.
To assess knowledge of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors among a group of health screening participants and to compare knowledge between participants with high and low CVD risk.
To assess and compare the attitudes of primary care physicians and midlevel providers toward community pharmacists by surveying the frequency and perceived helpfulness of practitioner-pharmacist interactions, as well as attitudes toward traditional and expanded functions.
To assess patients' knowledge of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) lifestyle modifications and to identify patients' behaviors associated with GERD management before and after an educational intervention.
To describe a pharmacist-managed health screening as a tool to identify patients who were at risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD).
To determine which states in the United States have provisions in place for pharmacist participation in drug and disease management programs and/or collaborative practice agreements and to provide comparison and discussion regarding such provisions. A secondary endpoint was the requirements of certification, credentialing, and registration with the specific state's rules and regulations.
We investigated the usefulness of Sonazoid contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (Sonazoid-CEUS) in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The examination was performed by comparing the images during the Kupffer phase of Sonazoid-CEUS with superparamagnetic iron oxide magnetic resonance (SPIO-MRI).
Autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP) is a unique form of pancreatitis and can be complicated with various extrapancreatic lesions. Little is known about the long-term clinical course of AIP. Here we aimed to document the clinical course of AIP.
The first aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship between impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and nonalcoholic fatty liver. The second was to make a rule regarding to whom 75-g oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs) should be applied to identify subjects with IGT and diabetes mellitus (DM) in the annual check-up at the human dry dock.
The prevalence of inflammatory bowel diseases is much lower in Asian countries, including Japan, than in Western countries, but it is rapidly increasing. However, no recent reports describe the current prevalence of these diseases in Japan, so we performed a descriptive epidemiological study to remedy this situation and to elucidate various characteristics of inflammatory bowel diseases in this country.
Adipocytokines are adipocyte-secreted hormones associated with some malignancies. We investigated the association of adipocytokines with gastric cancer.
The aim of this study is to determine whether a changed expression ratio of PAR-1 and PAR-2 in the colon is associated with diarrhea-predominant IBS patients.
Infiltration of IgG4-positive plasma cells in the pancreas and other organs is characteristic of autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP). However, it is undetermined whether needle or forceps biopsy of pancreas or other organs is indeed useful for the diagnosis of AIP. We aimed to clarify this point.
Ilaprazole (IY-81149) is a new proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) not previously studied in human patients with ulcer disease. This study evaluated and compared it with a reference PPI, omeprazole, in the treatment of gastric and duodenal ulcers.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)-guided trucut biopsy (TCB) for diagnosis of autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP).
The role of duodenogastroesophageal reflux (DGER) in gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) remains controversial. Few studies of reflux have compared patients with an intact stomach to those without intact stomach after gastroesophageal surgery. This study aimed to investigate differences of the refluxate between patients with and without prior gastroesophageal surgery and to assess the role of DGER in GERD.
Endoluminal gastroplication (ELGP) was the first endoscopic therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Data on the long-term outcomes, including the plication status and data from Asian populations, are limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term and long-term effectiveness and safety of ELGP for GERD in the Japanese population.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) polymorphisms are associated with peptic ulcer and atrophic gastritis. This study aimed to examine effects of corpus atrophy and the genotypes of genes related to peptic ulcer, including IL-1beta, on risk of aspirin ulcer.
To examine whether the presence of high risk-human papilloma virus (HR-HPV) after conization of the cervix was a risk factor for persistence or recurrence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and whether HR-HPV test could be a guideline for post-therapy surveillance.
The clearance rate of human papillomavirus (HPV) after conization is generally high, although some HPV infections persist. We investigated the factors that affect the clearance of HPV after conization in patients with negative margins.
To evaluate the efficacy of taxane and platinum-based chemotherapy guided by extreme drug resistance assay (EDRA) in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer.
The objective of this study was to identify the prognostic factors of secondary cytoreductive surgery on survival in patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer.
This study was undertaken to document current practice patterns for the surgical treatment of endometrial cancer in Korea.
Platinum (Pt) based drugs including cisplatin and carboplatin are widely used as anticancer drugs in various human cancers. Many studies have shown that chemotherapeutic agents synergistically enhance cell death induced by death ligands. However it has been recently reported that cisplatin may inhibit tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-induced cell death through inactivation of caspases. Thus, we investigated whether carboplatin also inhibits TRAIL-induced cell death.
To define the molecular basis of TGF-beta1 function in cervical carcinogenesis, we explored the expression and mutational status of TGF-beta1, TGF-beta1 receptors, and Smads, the regulators of the TGF-beta1 signaling pathway, in human cervical cancers.
We sought to assess and compare the diagnostic accuracy and prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE), dobutamine SPECT, and adenosine SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
To determine the prognostic value of reversible myocardial perfusion defects on myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (MPS) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and mild anginal complaints.
This study tested the ability of work relationships and work empowerment to predict nursing expertise in experienced acute care nurses.
Nursing workflow was evaluated after the implementation of a continuous vigilance monitoring system to determine if the system enhanced patient-centric nursing care.
The aim of this study was to rigorously evaluate a brief stress management intervention for nurse leaders.
The aim of this study was to understand how nurses use critical thinking to delegate nursing care.
The ovarian tumor marker CA125 is expressed on human MUC16, a cell surface bound mucin that is also shed by proteolytic cleavage. Human MUC16 is overexpressed by ovarian cancer cells. MUC16 facilitates the binding of ovarian tumor cells to mesothelial cells lining the peritoneal cavity. Additionally, MUC16 also is a potent inhibitor of natural killer cell mediated anti-tumor cytotoxic responses. Extensive studies using human as well as murine ovarian tumor cell models are required to clearly define the function of MUC16 in the progression of ovarian tumors. The major objective of this study was to determine if the murine ovarian tumor cells, MOVCAR, express Muc16 and to characterize antibodies that recognize this mucin.
This review summarizes recent research on the neuropharmacological and pharmacokinetic properties of berberine, an isoquinoline alkaloid extracted from Coptidis rhizoma.
The endocannabinoid system is an endogenous lipid signalling network comprising arachidonic-acid-derived ligands, cannabinoid (CB) receptors, transporters and endocannabinoid degrading enzymes. The CB(1) receptor is predominantly expressed in neurons but is also co-expressed with the CB(2) receptor in peripheral tissues. In recent years, CB receptor ligands, including Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, have been proposed as potential anticancer agents.
For topical application of quercetin it is necessary to improve the low efficiency of its intradermal delivery as well as its low solubility in aqueous and organic vesicles. The aim of this study was to determine the usefulness of a microemulsion for that purpose.
We have assessed the kinetics of drug release in relation to the full or partial hydration and swelling of matrices under standard and modified United States Pharmacopeia (USP) apparatus II using a novel index, defined as the symmetrical shape factor. The symmetrical shape factor describes the regularity of the hydration rate of the matrix perimeter relative to its central regions.
Superantigens have shown potent effects against bladder tumours by inducing Vbeta-specific T-lymphocyte proliferation and massive cytokine release but therapeutic benefit is compromised by cytotoxicity towards non-malignant cells and hypotoxicity to major histocompability complex (MHC) II-negative tumour cells. We are therefore interested in a conjugate preparation of a monoclonal antibody (MAb)-superantigens conjugate for which these drawbacks would be resolved.
'Party pills' have found use worldwide as a substitute for amphetamine-derived designer drugs. Whilst some information exists about the metabolism of these drugs, there is little information about their ability to inhibit the metabolism of co-administered drugs. This study aimed to determine whether predictions can be made about global interactions between 'party pills' constituents and other drugs metabolised by the same cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes.
The aim was to establish a preclinical in-vitro system of the nasal mucosa for the simultaneous evaluation of nasal absorption and effects on ciliary activity.
Inter-individual variability of gastrointestinal physiology and transit properties can greatly influence the pharmacokinetics of an orally administered drug in vivo. To predict the expected range of pharmacokinetic plasma concentrations after oral drug administration, a physiologically based pharmacokinetic population model for gastrointestinal transit and absorption was developed and evaluated.
alpha(2)-Adrenergic and mu-opioid receptors belong to the rhodopsin family of G-protein coupled receptors and mediate antinociceptive effects via similar signal transduction pathways. Previous studies have revealed direct functional interactions between both receptor systems including synergistic and additive effects. To evaluate underlying mechanisms, we have studied whether morphine and fentanyl interacted with alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-subtypes in mice lacking one individual alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-subtype (alpha(2)-adrenoceptor knockout).
Methotrexate is reportedly a substrate for proton-coupled folate transporter/haem carrier protein 1 (PCFT/HCP1) and reduced folate carrier 1 (RFC1). In this study, we examined the contribution of PCFT/HCP1 and RFC1 in the intestinal absorption of methotrexate in rats.
Marine organisms have proven to be a rich source of potent pharmacologically active compounds. Three polyprenyl-1,4-hydroquinone derivates (hexaprenyl-1,4-hydroquinone, heptaprenyl-1,4-hydroquinone and nonaprenyl-1,4-hydroquinone) were isolated from the Zoobenthos-inhabiting sponges Sarcotragus muscarum and Ircinia fasciculata from the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (phylum: Porifera; class: Demospongiae).
The effect of a herbal medicine, Sho-seiryu-to (TJ-19), on oleic acid-induced lung injury, an animal model of acute respiratory distress syndrome or acute lung injury (ARDS/ALI), was examined.
The purpose of the present work was to characterize the pharmacological profile of different L. alba chemotypes and to correlate the obtained data to the presence of chemical constituents detected by phytochemical analysis.
The objective of the present study was to examine the ability of Centella asiatica extract to offer protection to DNA and membranes against the deleterious effects of ionizing radiation exposure.
The aim was to characterize the effect of penehyclidine hydrochloride, which mediates the relaxation of guinea-pig isolated gastrointestinal smooth muscle, on muscarinic receptor subtypes.
Bile salts have been shown to decrease the absorption of methotrexate in the rat intestine by an unknown mechanism. We aimed to examine this effect.
The immunomodulatory effect of ginger, Zingiber officinale (Zingiberaceae), sage, Salvia officinalis (Lamiaceae) and clove, Syzygium aromaticum (Myrtaceae), essential oils were evaluated by studying humor- and cell-mediated immune responses.
The US military has reported over 10,000 improvised explosive device attacks attributing to over 400 deaths in Iraq in 2005. Otologic blast injury and tympanic membrane (TM) perforation have traditionally been used as a predictor, or biomarker, of serious or occult primary blast injury (PBI). Although combat injuries from the US-Iraq conflict have been described, the utility of TM perforation as a marker of PBI has not. The objective of this study is to determine the incidence of tympanic perforation in patients subject to blast exposures and describe its utility as a biomarker of more serious primary barotrauma, as observed at a US military hospital in Iraq.
Gluten causes symptoms, in both celiac disease and non-celiac gluten-sensitivity, by its adverse actions on the nervous system. Many celiac patients experience neurological symptoms, frequently associated with malfunction of the autonomic nervous system. These neurological symptoms can present in celiac patients who are well nourished. The crucial point, however, is that gluten-sensitivity can also be associated with neurological symptoms in patients who do not have any mucosal gut damage (that is, without celiac disease). Gluten can cause neurological harm through a combination of cross reacting antibodies, immune complex disease and direct toxicity. These nervous system affects include: dysregulation of the autonomic nervous system, cerebella ataxia, hypotonia, developmental delay, learning disorders, depression, migraine, and headache. If gluten is the putative harmful agent, then there is no requirement to invoke gut damage and nutritional deficiency to explain the myriad of the symptoms experienced by sufferers of celiac disease and gluten-sensitivity. This is called "The Gluten Syndrome".
During male ejaculation, the pelvic muscles undergo coordinated intense contraction to expel the semen out of the male genital tract, a process associated with locally increased levels of lactic acid and free radicals as byproducts. In this regards, repetitive sexual activities with frequent ejaculation would impede the drainage and cause accumulation of these byproducts in the pelvic region, triggering consequent local pathophysiological changes such as edema, venous dilation and muscular malfunction, which further leads to common complaints in CP/CPPS patients such as lower urinary tract symptoms, pelvic discomfort and pain.
to determine the prevalence of depression in pregnancy and the factors that influence the development of depression and anxiety in pregnancy in a Turkish population.
to describe parents' experiences of using videoconferencing (VC) when discharged early from a maternity unit.
to explore how experienced midwives understand and experience their professional role and identity after the continuing changes that have taken place within their working domain over the last 20-25 years.
to explore barriers to and possibilities for interactive communication between midwives and pregnant women regarding smoking behaviour during pregnancy.
to explore the influence that clinical placements have on career intentions for undergraduate midwifery students.
to assess the test-retest reliability of the Greek version of the Kuopio Instrument for Fathers (KIF) questionnaire that explores fathers' feelings, experiences and preparation for their wife/partner's delivery.
to compare women's views and experiences of early postnatal care before and after implementation of maternity enhancement initiatives.
to identify and better understand factors that influence care-seeking behaviour for women's health among indigenous Mayan populations in the highlands of Guatemala.
to explore pregnant women's exercise patterns across pregnancy, reported reasons for exercising or not exercising, beliefs about the safety of exercise during pregnancy and the association of those beliefs with the amount and intensity of exercise that women participated in.
to investigate long-term outcomes of mothers who have or have not held their stillborn baby, and predictors of having held the baby.
to establish which factors are associated with birthing positions throughout the second stage of labour and at the time of birth.
to evaluate dimensions of both parents' postnatal sense of security the first week after childbirth, and to determine associations between the PPSS instrument and different sociodemographic and situational background variables.
to assess the acceptability of the Uniject prefilled injection device for delivery of oxytocin in the third stage of labour, and the effect of the device on overall willingness to perform active management of the third stage of labour (AMTSL).
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and regulation of the four major inflammatory cytokines in fungal keratitis (FK) with the goal of further understanding its pathogenesis in order to develop more effective therapeutic approaches.
To describe the clinical features of Hirayama disease in 2 brothers, especially the look-alike anatomic physiques and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 is a sporadic cause of viral encephalitis. Relapse of encephalitis occurs in up to 10% of patients, manifested by recurrent symptoms, clinical and MRI findings, and the presence of herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
To determine if oral cholinesterase inhibitors improve measures of cognitive outcome and are tolerated by people with PDD.
Downregulation of specific microRNAs (miRNAs) occurs in human tumors, which suggests a function for miRNAs in tumor suppression. We investigated the role of the miRNAs miR-143 and miR-145 in gastric cancers.
The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway plays a critical role in ovarian cancer cell survival and proliferation. The aim of this study was to determine whether the suppression of the PI3K catalytic subunit p110alphainhibits the growth of ovarian cancer cells in vitro and in vivo.
This phase II study evaluated the toxicity and efficacy of a novel dosing schedule of docetaxel and S-1 as treatment for advanced gastric cancer.
The microenvironment of cancer plays a critical role in its progression. However, the molecular features of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are less well understood than those of cancer cells. We investigated the clinicopathological significance of podoplanin expression in stromal fibroblasts in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC).
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of single-agent S-1 in patients with advanced biliary tract cancer.
To test whether hemodialysis could be associated with an increase in cTnT concentration. To evaluate if coronary artery disease (CAD) or diabetes are associated with higher cTnT levels in ESRD.
The study sought to ascertain the effectiveness of acupuncture as a treatment for fibromyalgia
To identify the risk factors of posterior iris synechia formation after phacovitrectomy with posterior chamber single-piece acrylic intraocular lens (IOL; Acrysof SA60AT) or 3-piece acrylic IOL (Acrysof MA60BM) implantation.
The vitamin E compound alpha-tocopherol inhibits fibroblast growth in vitro. To evaluate its potential benefit in preventing failure of glaucoma filtration surgery, we prospectively investigated the outcome of filtering surgery with postoperative dietary alpha-tocopherol supplementation.
To define if a new function improves the capability of the scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal compensation (GDx-VCC) nerve fiber analyzer in detecting preperimetric glaucoma using 12 retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) peripapillary sectors.
To compare Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) and dynamic contour tonometry (DCT) in the evaluation of intraocular pressure (IOP) in eyes with different corneal thicknesses.
To compare the long-term follow-up results of the bare sclera technique (BST), limbal-conjunctival autograft technique (LCAT) and amniotic membrane graft technique (AMGT) in primary pterygium excisions.
The following controlled trial was conducted to determine the positive effects of exercise on the body composition of patients suffering from COPD.
Had changes occurred in the algorithms of 3 selected devices--compared to the previously published benchmark studies? Do the current versions of these investigated devices differentiate between open and closed apnoeas?
Intrauterine infection is suggested to cause perinatal brain white matter injury. In the current study, we evaluated whether S100B, a brain damage marker, may be also assessed in maternal bloodstream after white matter injury induced by fetal intravenous application of lypopolisaccharide (LPS) endotoxin.
It was the aim of this study to describe the frequency and the clinical spectrum of pulmonary hypertension in adults with VA shunts.
To investigate whether the MDR1 2677 and 3435 genotypes are associated with the sensitivity of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to docetaxel.
Our aim was to investigate the mortality rate among workers exposed to relatively pure chrysotile in an asbestos cement factory.
To evaluate if IS may be a useful and safe tool for the detection of airway inflammation in patients with interstitial lung disease (ILD) in systemic sclerosis (SSc).
The purpose of this study was to investigate delays to presentation/diagnosis and their likely correlation with patients' clinical and radiographic findings in pulmonary thromboembolism.
To investigate the clinicoradiological features, clinical course and survival of lung cancer patients with PE.
We assessed the effect of A(1) and A(3) receptor activation on electrically induced nonadrenergic, noncholinergic (NANC) relaxations in the guinea pig isolated trachea and the localization of A(1) and A(3) receptors in tracheal inhibitory neurons.
To test whether the E1A gene, which is 1 of the viral genes responsible for enhanced inflammatory responses, is involved in corticosteroid resistance during clinical therapy for COPD.
We endeavored to systematically evaluate the currently available evidence regarding the infections associated with airway stenting.
The aims of this study were to test the ability of FOT to describe the changes in respiratory mechanics in sarcoidosis and to evaluate the clinical potential of FOT.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the clinical characteristics of elderly patients compared to young or middle-aged patients with OSAS.
To develop and assess a housestaff curriculum on opioid and other substance abuse among patients with chronic noncancer pain (CNCP).
This study attempted to reconstruct engineered uterine tissues (EUTs) containing smooth muscle layer, akin to the normal uterine wall.
Experimental wounding of articular cartilage results in cell death at the lesion edge. The objective of this study was to investigate whether inhibition of this cell death results in enhanced integrative cartilage repair.
The use of inhibitors of phosphodiesterase (PDE) isoenzymes 1 and 5 to treat overactive bladder has been suggested. To further evaluate the significance of PDE isoenzymes in detrusor smooth muscle relaxation, we investigated the effects of selective PDE inhibitors on the tension induced by carbachol of isolated human detrusor tissue. Using immunohistochemical methods, the expression of PDE1, PDE4, and PDE5 in human detrusor was also investigated.
The immediate effects of transradial access on the radial artery wall are unknown. In this study we sought to assess the histological changes induced by catheterization on the radial artery.
We sought to determine disparities in detection and treatment histories among a group of racial and ethnically diverse mothers with major depression.
This article describes the health status of and care provided to patients in visits coded to intimate partner violence (IPV) victims in a national survey of emergency departments (EDs). Visits coded for IPV were defined by International Classification of Diseases, 8th edition-Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) codes.
We sought to determine whether a brief intervention increased home pregnancy test utilization among women at risk for unintended pregnancy.
Despite the increase in breastfeeding initiation and duration in the United States, only five states have met the three Healthy People 2010 breastfeeding objectives. Our objectives are to study women's self-reported reasons for not initiating breastfeeding and to determine whether these reasons vary by race/ethnicity, and other maternal and hospital support characteristics.
To describe the proportion of HIV testing in the past 12 months among sexually experienced Asian and Pacific Islander (API) women and to investigate to what extent routine gynecologic care (RGC) increases HIV testing among API women.
To analyze the rate of OB in infants with high fever without source related to pneumococcal vaccination status and to study the yield of the CBC to identify children with OB in the era of PCV-7.
To investigate whether a low-dose adenosine infusion reduces the ischemic burden induced by pharmacological stress without affecting the coronary flow reserve (CFR).
To question the existing practice to observe the victims of scorpion sting in the emergency department at least for 6 h.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest is one of the leading causes of death in Mexico, but many survival and prognostic factors are unknown. The aim of this study was to assess out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in a Mexican city.
The objective of this study was to report on a nine years of experience of providing medical support during house parties (raves) in the Netherlands, where they can be organized legally.
To compare the plaque inhibition benefits of a control 0.454% stannous fluoride/sodium hexametaphosphate/sodium fluoride dentifrice (SnF2/SHMP with 1450 ppm F) to a chlorhexidine digluconate (0.05%), aluminum lactate (0.8%), and aluminum fluoride (AlF3/Chx with 1400 ppm F) dentifrice.
The objective of this independent, double-blind, seven-day clinical study was to assess the efficacy of a commercially available mouthrinse containing 0.05% CPC for controlling dental plaque relative to that of a control mouthrinse without 0.05% CPC.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the anticaries potential of a new sodium fluoride dentifrice in comparison to two commercial dentifrices containing different fluoride compounds by determining enamel fluoride uptake (EFU) and early caries lesion remineralization (REM) in an established in vitro caries remineralization/demineralization pH cycling model.
The objective of this independent, double-blind, seven-day clinical study was to assess the efficacy of a commercially available mouthrinse containing 0.05% cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) in preventing dental plaque build-up relative to that of a control mouthrinse without 0.05% CPC.
The objective of this independent, double-blind, parallel, six-week clinical study was to assess the efficacy of a commercially available mouthrinse containing 0.05% cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) for controlling established dental plaque and gingivitis relative to that of a control mouthrinse without CPC.
Colgate Total toothpaste has been demonstrated to be highly effective in plaque and gingivitis control. The effect of triclosan on root caries and on the survival of dental crowns (fixed dental prosthetic treatment) has not been evaluated. In order to examine these important variables, a randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted comparing Colgate Total toothpaste with triclosan, and an identical fluoride toothpaste without triclosan.
To clinically evaluate the durability of an impressionless intraoral appliance (iNterra) system, fabricated using a direct/indirect technique.
The purpose of this systematic review was to determine if patients receiving treatment for cancer experienced less treatment-related fatigue if they participated in a regular committed exercise regimen, compared to those who did not exercise regularly.
What is the relationship between treatment-related fatigue and exercise during chemotherapy and/or radiation?
The aim of this study was to determine whether low values of VLPP (Valsava Leak Point Pressure) and low values of MUCP (Maximal Urethral Closure Pressure) before operation can predict quality of life (QOL) after anti-incontinence surgery.
Barrett's oesophagus (BO) is associated with the development of oesophageal adenocarcinoma and endoscopic surveillance is commonly practised. In view of the clinical, psychological and economic implications of BO, we have studied patients' attitudes towards surveillance, their levels of anxiety and quality of life.
To determine the incidence of hyperplastic polyps in patients undergoing surveillance colonoscopy and to compare with the prevalence in individuals undergoing index colonoscopy.
This study was aimed to measure skin water content and transepidermal water loss (TEWL) in patients with a history of sulfur mustard contact.
Nationally, 10%-15% of women report smoking during the last 3 months of pregnancy. Because the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (now the Joint Commission) requires all U.S. hospitals to be smoke-free, and because tobacco is addictive, the maternal desire to smoke after childbirth could lead to requests for early hospital discharge for mothers and newborns. The authors hypothesized that maternal tobacco use would be associated with shorter newborn nursery hospital stays.
Nitrate administration has been proposed to enhance the detection of myocardial viability when performing myocardial perfusion imaging. In this study, we aimed to compare Tl-201 exercise-rest-reinjection protocol with rest isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN)-Tc99m MIBI study in the same population examined for the myocardial viability.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of computed tomography (CT) artifacts caused by dental metal prostheses on positron emission tomography (PET) images.
Frizzled homolog 10 (FZD10) is expressed at high levels on the cell surface of almost all synovial sarcoma tissues, but is absent in most normal organs. In a previous study, yttrium-90 ((90)Y)-labeled anti-FZD10 antibody (MAb 92-13) showed considerable therapeutic efficacy in synovial sarcoma cell-bearing mice. The purpose of the present study was to elucidate the factors associated with this therapeutic efficacy of (90)Y-MAb 92-13.
Segmentation with scatter and photopeak window data using attenuation correction (SSPAC) method can provide a patient-specific non-uniform attenuation coefficient map only by using photopeak and scatter images without X-ray computed tomography (CT). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of attenuation correction (AC) by the SSPAC method on normal myocardial perfusion database.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical significance of performing (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron-emission tomography (PET) on patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs).
The aim of this study is to clarify the difference of F-18 FDG uptake kinetics between FDG-avid non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and benign lesions associated with various etiologies on dual-time point PET/CT scan, and to determine the optimal parameter for differentiation.
Peristalsis can lead to confusing FDG PET bowel uptake artefacts and potential for recording inaccurate mean standardised uptake value (SUV) measurements in PET-CT scans. Accordingly, we investigate the influence of different SUV normalisations on FDG PET uptake of the bowel and assess which one(s) have least dependence on body size factors in patients with and without the introduction of the anti-peristalsis agent N-butylscopolamine (Buscopan).
Lymphoscintigraphy and sentinel node biopsy are used for the detection of axillary lymph node metastasis in breast cancer patients. However, currently there is no standardized technique. For the detection of axillary lymph node metastasis by lymphoscintigraphy and sentinel node biopsy, in patients with breast cancer, we compared the results of subareolar injections administered on the day of surgery (1-day protocol) with injections administered on the day before surgery (2-day protocol).
The study aimed to investigate the effect of high dose radioactive iodine (RAI) on parathyroid function in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer.
Intraoperative gamma probe (GP) guidance with (99m)Tc-pertechnetate in the completion total thyroidectomy after a first thyroidectomy was investigated in this prospective study.
This study examined the influence of linearization correction (LC) on brain perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
We sought to examine the effect of body mass index (BMI) on 30-day morbidity and mortality in a large cohort of patients undergoing nonbariatric general surgery.
Higher surgeon volume is associated with improved patient outcomes. This finding has prompted recommendations for increasing specialization and referrals to high-volume surgeons, yet their implementation in clinical practice has not been measured.
To determine the safety and efficacy of saline-linked surface radiofrequency ablation (SLSRFA) in a clinical setting.
To review the characteristics of stem cells that may qualify them to be useful as therapeutic agents in sepsis.
Transplantation of organs retrieved after cardiac arrest could increase the donor organ supply. However, the combination of warm ischemia and cold preservation is highly detrimental to the reperfused organ. Our objective was to maintain physiological temperature and organ function during preservation and thereby alleviate this injury and allow successful transplantation.
Evidence-based surgery is predicated on the quality of published literature. We measured the quality of surgery manuscripts selected by peer review and identified predictors of excellence.
To examine cellular and immunologic mechanisms by which intraoperative hypothermia affects surgical patients.
To test the hypothesis that hyporesponsiveness to ghrelin due to reduced growth hormone (GH) contributes to the aging-related hyperinflammatory state in sepsis.
To validate the LiMAx test, a new bedside test for the determination of maximal liver function capacity based on C-methacetin kinetics. To investigate the diagnostic performance of different liver function tests and scores including the LiMAx test for the prediction of postoperative outcome after hepatectomy.
To identify operative morbidity, mortality, and long-term outcome after operative treatment for symptomatic polycystic liver disease (PLD) and develop a treatment algorithm for patients with PLD.
To report our complete experience with laparoscopic liver resection (LLR) to understand what role it may play in the broader context of liver surgery.
To evaluate both the feasibility and efficacy of our combined therapy, which consisted of preoperative chemoradiation, surgery, and postoperative liver perfusion chemotherapy (LPC) for patients with T3 (extended beyond the pancreatic confines) cancer of the pancreas.
To evaluate the safety and outcome of multivisceral pancreatic resections for primary pancreatic malignancies.
This study was undertaken to determine the survival benefit of extending resections to obtain microscopically negative margins after positive intraoperative frozen sections.
To investigate potential impacts of restructuring general surgery training on colorectal (CR) surgery recruitment and expertise.
The goal was to assess long-term oncologic outcome after laparoscopic versus open surgery for rectal cancer and to evaluate the impact of conversion.
To compare clinicopathological features and long-term outcome in gastric cancer patients coming from high-risk and low-risk areas of Italy.
The aim of this report is to evaluate the efficacy of the 3 most common open mesh techniques used in practice.
The objective of this study is to determine the optimal timing for surgical antimicrobial prophylaxis (AMP).
To evaluate the correlation between prothrombin gene G20210A mutation and deep vein thrombosis after total joint replacement through detecting distribution frequency of single nucleotide polymorphism of the gene in patients undergoing total joint replacement.
Intranasal corticosteroids are considered to be highly effective in patients with perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis. Multiple intranasal corticosteroid products are available; however, an intranasal corticosteroid that treats nasal and ocular seasonal allergic rhinitis symptoms may be more cost effective by reducing the need for concomitant drugs. The purpose of this study was to compare the utilization and costs of concomitant allergic rhinitis drugs among commonly used branded intranasal corticosteroid drugs.
The ARthritis Treatment Satisfaction (ARTS) questionnaire specifically assesses patients' satisfaction with osteoarthritis treatment. However, its usefulness is limited since its criterion validity is unknown. The goal of this research was to analyse the criterion validity of the questionnaire in order to identify a cut-off value able to differentiate patients who are satisfied and those who are unsatisfied with osteoarthritis treatment and to establish the possible need for switching therapy.
Food has reportedly not affected the systemic bioavailability of the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine. However, searches of the medical literature could find no studies to support this food claim for any formulation of clozapine. The purpose of the current study was to assess the effect of food on the bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of clozapine orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) following single 12.5 mg doses in the healthy subjects in fasted and fed conditions.
Human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a haematopoietic hormone that promotes the growth, proliferation, differentiation and maturation of neutrophil precursors. Filgrastim is a recombinant human G-CSF. Myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation and arrhythmia have been reported in several patients with malignancy receiving filgrastim, but a causal relationship with the drug has not been established. The purpose of this study was to investigate the changes in ECG parameters in neutropenic patients during treatment with filgrastim.
An observational cohort study in patients undergoing treatment at a single cancer centre to evaluate the usefulness of providing written information on exercise and fatigue to patients at the start of their treatment, to assess whether patients exercised during treatment and their level of fatigue before and after treatment.
To review the results of hypofractionated radiotherapy in T1N0M0 squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx.
Cisplatin-based chemotherapy with radiotherapy is currently the standard treatment for locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix. Recent studies have shown a better response with the addition of newer chemotherapeutic agents. The aim of this phase I study was to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of paclitaxel in combination with cisplatin as a radiosensitiser along with radiation therapy in the treatment of carcinoma of the cervix and to analyse the toxicity profile of the combination regimen.
The management of the multiple basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) that develop throughout life of patients with Gorlin syndrome can be challenging. Surgical excision can result in significant disfigurement from scarring and tissue defects. Radiotherapy is contraindicated because of enhanced radiation tumourigenesis in these patients. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a simple, repeatable out-patient procedure, which is associated with minimal skin deterioration. It is now routinely used to treat superficial sporadic BCCs, using a topically-applied photosensitiser and external light, but its role in the management of Gorlin syndrome-related BCCs has yet to be established. In particular, Gorlin syndrome is often associated thick, nodular lesions which can be resistant to treatment with topical PDT.
To compare differences in dose to the target volume and organs at risk (OARs) for ring and tandem brachytherapy using individualised magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/computed tomography-based three-dimensional treatment plans for each application vs plans based on a single scan for all fractions.
Currently available therapies do improve survival in advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but only to a limited degree. Talabostat mesilate (PT-100) is an orally available amino boronic dipeptide that specifically inhibits dipeptidyl peptidases (including fibroblast activation protein) and enhances an immune response. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of talabostat in NSCLC patients.
Modelling of demand has shown substantial underprovision of radiotherapy in the UK. We used national audit data to study geographical differences in radiotherapy waiting times, access and dose fractionation across the four countries of the UK and between English strategic health authorities.
To assess the suitability of confocal laser endomicroscopy for the in vivo diagnosis of mucosal changes in ileal pouch for ulcerative colitis and familial adenomatous polyposis.
Serum gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase level is often increased in patients with chronic hepatitis C, and we aimed to identify factors associated with this phenomenon in patients completely abstinent from alcohol (teetotaller).
To investigate the clinical significance of serum Tu M2-PK and CA19-9 detection in the diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma.
To compare the efficacy of bismuth or proton pump inhibitors triple therapy for H. pylori eradication in pangastritis.
The aims were to estimate among patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection the prevalence of alcohol and coffee intake and smoking habit, the reliability of these self-reported data and the possible change of patients' habit after their first contact with a Viral Hepatitis Service.
Considerable evidence has indicated that apoptosis plays an important role in hepatocyte death in chronic liver disease. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying liver regeneration in these diseases are largely unknown. Plausibly, certain molecules expressed to counteract apoptosis might provide survival advantage of certain liver cells. Therefore, we investigated a possible expression of decoy receptor 3 of the tumour necrosis factor receptor family in chronic liver diseases since decoy receptor 3 is known to inhibit apoptosis mediated by pro-apoptotic tumour necrosis factor family ligands including Fas ligand.
The Adacolumn selectively depletes granulocytes and monocytes/macrophages, which are thought to be part of the immunopathogenesis of ulcerative colitis. This work aims at evaluating the safety and clinical efficacy of the Adacolumn in patients with ulcerative colitis in large population-based data sets.
To assess the validity and feasibility of mucin and protein determinations in human colonic mucus collected under physiological conditions.
Rheumatic manifestations are frequent in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and are associated with a wide range of clinical patterns.
Concern has been expressed over the cardiovascular risks associated with rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. This study investigates the association between oral antihyperglycaemics (rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, sulfonylureas and metformin) with myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, angina pectoris, stroke and transient ischaemic attack.
The aim of this study was to analyse prescribing patterns and adverse drug reactions (ADRs) for Asteraceae-containing remedies in Germany.
Several studies have been conducted to determine the frequency and characteristics of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in elderly populations, focusing on those leading to hospital admission. However, most of these studies have been limited in their ability to assess risk factors, particularly the renal status of patients. Thus, the aim of this prospective study was to assess the incidence of ADRs and associated factors leading to hospital admissions in the elderly population.
To examine utilization of antipsychotic medications and the factors associated with use of atypical antipsychotics among elderly nursing home residents with dementia.
To describe the number and type of drugs used and to evaluate the role of different factors associated with PP (i.e. 6-9 drugs) and EPP (i.e. &gt; or =10 drugs), with special reference to the number and type of medical diagnoses and symptoms, in a population of home-dwelling elderly persons aged &gt; or =75 years.
This study sought to explore adherence to medication and resident involvement in prescribing and decision making in regard to medicines in the nursing home setting.
To investigate the number and severity of potential drug problems and factors associated with the occurrence of potential drug problems in older newly diagnosed cancer patients.
Our aim was to determine dual-phase (18)F-FDG PET imaging features for various subtypes of thymic epithelial tumors based on the World Health Organization classification.
The J-ACCESS [Japanese investigation of prognosis based on gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)] study found that quantitative gated myocardial SPECT (QGS) is valuable for predicting the prognosis of Japanese patients with known or suspected ischaemic heart disease. The present study evaluates the incremental prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) with QGS among patients referred for coronary angiography (CAG).
The human monoclonal antibody (MAb) fragment L19-SIP is directed against extra domain B (ED-B) of fibronectin, a marker of tumour angiogenesis. A clinical radioimmunotherapy (RIT) trial with (131)I-L19-SIP was recently started. In the present study, after GMP production of (124)I and efficient production of (124)I-L19-SIP, we aimed to demonstrate the suitability of (124)I-L19-SIP immuno-PET for imaging of angiogenesis at early-stage tumour development and as a scouting procedure prior to clinical (131)I-L19-SIP RIT.
In planar (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine ((123)I-MIBG) myocardial imaging mediastinum (M) activity is often used as a background correction in calculating "washout" (WO). However, the most likely sources for counts that might produce errors in estimating myocardial (Myo) activity are lung (Lu) and liver (Li), which typically have higher counts/pixel (cpp) than M. The present study investigated the relationship between changes in Lu, Li and Myo activity between early and late planar (123)I-MIBG images, with comparison to M as the best estimator of non-specific background activity.
The aim of this study was to create an alternative mutant of the herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase (HSV1-tk) reporter gene with reduced phosphorylation capacity for acycloguanosine derivatives, but not pyrimidine-based compounds that will allow for successful PET imaging.
Cholecystokinin 2 (CCK-2) receptor overexpression has been demonstrated in a high percentage of medullary thyroid carcinomas (MTC). Analogous to somatostatin receptors, CCK-2 receptors might be viable targets for radionuclide scintigraphy and/or radionuclide therapy. Several CCK-2 receptor-binding radiopeptides have been developed, and some have been carried through into clinical studies. However, these studies are mostly limited and difficult to compare. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic and therapeutic potential of three promising CCK-2 receptor-binding radiopeptides in patients with MTC.
The very early chemotherapeutic effects of the FOLFOX (fluorouracil, folinic acid, oxaliplatin) protocol were assessed in mice implanted with a human colorectal cell line. The aim of this study was to identify changes in gene expression patterns and to detect combinations of PET parameters that may be helpful in identifying treated tumours early after chemotherapy using dynamic PET studies.
Acute mesenteric ischaemia (AMI) is a lethal disease with an increasing incidence. Despite the availability of effective treatment, AMI remains a vascular emergency with over 60% mortality rate mainly due to late diagnosis. The difficulty in diagnosing this fatal condition stems from non-specific clinical and laboratory findings and lack of appropriate imaging study. Our aim was to test a non-invasive method of identifying AMI using PET.
Transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice spontaneously develop hormone-dependent and hormone-independent prostate cancer (PC) that potentially resembles the human pathological condition. The aim of the study was to validate PET imaging as a reliable tool for in vivo assessment of disease biology and progression in TRAMP mice using radioligands routinely applied in clinical practice: [(18)F]FDG and [(11)C]choline.
(R,S)-N-(4-Bromo-2-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxy-7-((1-methyl-3-piperidinyl)methoxy)-4-quinazolinamine (PAQ) is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor with high affinity for the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2), which plays an important role in tumour angiogenesis. The aim of this work was to develop and evaluate in mice the (11)C-labelled analogue as an in vivo tracer for VEGFR-2 expression in solid tumours.
Various radiolabeled Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptides have been previously investigated for tumor integrin alpha(v)beta(3) imaging. To further develop RGD radiotracers with enhanced tumor-targeting efficacy and improved in vivo pharmacokinetics, we designed a new RGD homodimeric peptide with two PEG(4) spacers (PEG(4) = 15-amino-4,7,10,13-tetraoxapentadecanoic acid) between the two monomeric RGD motifs and one PEG(4) linker on the glutamate alpha-amino group ((18)F-labeled PEG(4)-E[PEG(4)-c(RGDfK)](2), P-PRGD2), as a promising agent for noninvasive imaging of integrin expression in mouse models.
Diabetic patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) frequently develop cardiac events within several years of the initiation of haemodialysis. The present study assesses the prognostic significance of stress myocardial ECG-gated perfusion imaging (MPI) in patients with diabetic CKD requiring haemodialysis.
In a previous PET study on norepinephrine transporter (NET) occupancy in the nonhuman primate brain, the relationship between NET occupancy and atomoxetine plasma concentration, and occupancies among different brain regions, were not demonstrated adequately. It may therefore be difficult to translate the results to the clinical situations. In the present study, the detailed change of NET occupancy was investigated among a wider range of doses in a more advanced manner.
Multidrug resistance, aggressiveness and accelerated choline metabolism are hallmarks of malignancy and have motivated the development of new PET tracers like (18)F-FCH, an analogue of choline. Our aim was to study the relationship of multidrug resistance of cultured glioma cell lines and (18)F-FCH tracer uptake.
Here, we give a brief overview on the origin of CICs, the mechanisms involved in chemoresistance and therapeutic implications.
To provide the reader with basic insights into influenza virus infections, the threat of a pandemic and the challenges it poses for vaccine development.
This review focuses on briakinumab and its use in chronic plaque-type psoriasis.
To evaluate the effects of radial conjunctival incision during fornix-based trabeculectomy, and conjunctival scarring associated with previous ocular surgeries, for the restriction of bleb formation.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of pneumatic trabeculoplasty (PNT) compared with latanoprost 0.005%, in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OH) not controlled by timolol 0.5%.
To determine whether retinal microcirculatory changes occur after vitrectomy in eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME), and whether changes in blood flow are associated with visual outcome and the resolution of macular edema.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the retinal toxicity of two doses of adalimumab (Humira), a recombinant human IgG1 monoclonal antibody specific for human tumor necrosis factor (TNF), when injected intravitreally in rabbits.
To report three cases of presumed Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease with unilateral ocular manifestations.
To determine the efficacy of intravitreal injection of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) gas for reducing persistent subfoveal fluid after scleral buckling surgery for macula-off rhegmatogenous retinal detachments.
To determine if bestrophin is present in the basal membrane of macular retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and in drusen of rhesus monkeys with age-related drusenoid maculopathy.
To evaluate the efficacy, and safety of transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TES) to accelerate corneal nerve regeneration and improved recovery from corneal hypesthasia after laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK).
Adenosine mediates somatic and visceral pain, but its effects on gut visceral nociception are unknown. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that adenosine alters oesophageal sensorimotor function.
Assessment of disease extension and activity is crucial to guide treatment in Crohn's disease. The objective of the current cross-sectional study was to determine the accuracy of MR for this assessment.
Small bowel manometry is increasingly used in the clinical investigation of patients with symptoms of intestinal motor dysfunction. Enteric dysmotility (ED) has been suggested as a new diagnostic term for patients with abnormal intestinal motor activity but no radiological signs of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIP). Histopathological features of adult patients with ED and CIP have been compared in a large case series to study differences and similarities between the two diagnostic groups.
Previous clinical trials suggest that adding non-selective beta-blockers improves the efficacy of endoscopic band ligation (EBL) in the prevention of recurrent bleeding, but no study has evaluated whether EBL improves the efficacy of beta-blockers + isosorbide-5-mononitrate. The present study was aimed at evaluating this issue in a multicentre randomised controlled trial (RCT) and to correlate changes in hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) during treatment with clinical outcomes
Our previous coeliac disease genome-wide association study (GWAS) implicated risk variants in the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) region and eight novel risk regions. To identify more coeliac disease loci, we selected 458 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that showed more modest association in the GWAS for genotyping and analysis in four independent cohorts.
Obese and diabetic mice display enhanced intestinal permeability and metabolic endotoxaemia that participate in the occurrence of metabolic disorders. Our recent data support the idea that a selective increase of Bifidobacterium spp. reduces the impact of high-fat diet-induced metabolic endotoxaemia and inflammatory disorders. Here, we hypothesised that prebiotic modulation of gut microbiota lowers intestinal permeability, by a mechanism involving glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2) thereby improving inflammation and metabolic disorders during obesity and diabetes.
Endotoxaemia can complicate hepatic ischaemia-reperfusion (IR) injury. Endocannabinoids appear to modulate the haemodynamic alterations and cytokine response induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Thus, we aimed to determine the effect of the endocannabinoid CB1-receptor antagonist Rimonabant in a model of hepatic IR injury complicated by endotoxaemia.
Ileocaecal resection (ICR) is common in Crohn's disease. Inflammation and fibrosis frequently recur at the site of anastomosis or in the small intestine (SI). No animal models of postsurgical inflammation and fibrosis exist. A model of ICR was developed in interleukin 10 (IL10) null and wild-type (WT) mice to test the hypothesis that ICR promotes postsurgical inflammation and fibrosis in the SI or anastomosis of genetically susceptible IL10 null, but not WT or germ-free (GF)-IL10 null mice.
To determine if polymorphisms in the CDH1 gene are associated with Crohn's disease and to determine the function associated with these polymorphisms.
Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) is a common gastrointestinal disorder with a genetic component. Our aim was to identify genetic factors associated with GORD.
To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of the economic outcomes of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) prevention associated with silver-coated endotracheal tubes versus uncoated endotracheal tubes.
To describe the French program for the prevention of healthcare-associated infections and antibiotic resistance and provide results for some of the indicators available to evaluate the program. In addition to structures and process indicators, the 2 outcome indicators selected were the rate of surgical site infection and the proportion of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolates among the S. aureus isolates recovered.
To determine whether Staphylococcus aureus isolates from the nares of patients on a burn trauma unit were related to isolates colonizing or infecting other body sites.
To determine risk factors and outcomes for patients with meropenem high-level-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MRPA) (minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC] &gt; or = 32 microg/mL).
Creation of a mixture model based on Poisson processes for assessment of the extent of cross-transmission of multidrug-resistant pathogens in the hospital.
To ascertain whether cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are colonized or infected with unique or multiple strains of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia; to understand whether some strains colonize or infect more than 1 patient, indicating clonal spread; and to explore the molecular heterogeneity of hospital water isolates and their correlation with clinical isolates.
This article builds on earlier discussions about college health research. The author suggests a 5-step framework that research practitioners can use to build models of practice that accurately address the needs of diverse campus populations.
The authors aimed to replicate previous findings on social capital and harmful alcohol outcomes in the college setting and to ascertain the protective effects of additional indicators of social capital.
Heavy episodic drinking remains a significant problem on college campuses. Although most interventions for college students are behavioral, pharmacological treatments, such as naltrexone, could provide additional options.
The purpose of the Pragmatics Project was to test a student engagement model for developing and implementing alcohol intervention strategies.
There is a dearth of studies on the mechanisms of multiple risk behaviors, even though these behaviors are significant public health issues. The authors investigated whether health behavior interventions have transfer or compensatory effects on other health behaviors.
The purpose of this study was to apply Ajzen's theory of planned behavior (TPB) and a measure of past physical activity behavior to predict first-year students' physical activity intentions and behavior.
The authors measured the prevalence of depressive symptoms among dental students at a historically black college in the United States to determine how depressive symptoms, stress, and social support influence each other within this student population.
Using a qualitative methodology, the author examined the sociorecreational use of pharmaceuticals in a collegiate setting.
In fall 2006, the authors examined associations between the five-factor model of personality and several key health behaviors.
This study explored whether specific dimensions of spiritual well-being (religious well-being and existential well-being) relate to reduced suicidal ideation, and whether associations persisted after controlling for religiosity and psychosocial variables associated with suicide.
To characterize the location and magnitude of impacts sustained by players during an interscholastic football season.
To examine the contributions of lower extremity kinematics during an assessment of dynamic stability in participants with CAI.
To determine the relationship between generalized joint laxity and dynamic plantar pressure distribution. We hypothesized that individuals with greater generalized joint laxity, or hypermobility, would have greater dynamic medial midfoot pressure and loading during walking than nonhypermobile individuals.
To study the effects of 2 different ankle braces on the neuromuscular factors influencing ankle stiffness.
To assess the prevalence of occupational burnout, engagement, and somatic health complaints and the associations among these constructs experienced by certified athletic trainers (ATs). A secondary objective was to examine differences between men and women, those with more versus less postcertification experience, and ATs who worked in different occupational settings.
To discover the theoretic constructs that confirm, disconfirm, or extend the principles and their applications appropriate for National Athletic Trainers' Association (NATA)-accredited postprofessional athletic training education programs.
To examine the overall satisfaction levels of graduates (2005-2006) of National Athletic Trainers' Association-accredited postprofessional athletic training education programs as related to the 2002 Standards and Guidelines for Development and Implementation of NATA-Accredited Post-Professional Graduate Athletic Training Education Programs.
To identify the concussion management methods and guidelines currently taught in the athletic training classroom and clinical settings and to track the dissemination of the Vienna guidelines throughout the educational curriculum.
To examine differences at baseline testing on pencil-and-paper neuropsychological tests among grade levels in high school athletes.
To (1) explore debilitative images used during rehabilitation, (2) examine athlete and injury characteristics in relation to variations in imagery content and return-to-practice anxiety, (3) compare the frequency of imagery use early in injury rehabilitation with that just before return to practice, and (4) examine the relationship between image use and return-to-practice anxiety.
To estimate eating-disorder prevalence based on associated eating-disorder characteristics and behaviors in female auxiliary members and to compare perceived and ideal body images and anthropometric measurements between at-risk and not-at-risk participants for eating-disorder characteristics and behaviors.
To employ retrospective trend analysis in an attempt to provide a layered description of the relative contribution (per credential) of clinical athletic trainers (those without terminal degrees) to authoring scientific literature in the Journal of Athletic Training (JAT). From these data, our secondary purpose was to evaluate trends relative to changes in journal policy and increased educational rigor or professional limitations over the past decade, discussing how they may affect the potential for clinical athletic trainers to contribute to JAT.
Medication algorithms have been proposed as effective means to offer optimal treatment and improved outcome for patients with severe mental illness. This single-center prospective study compared the efficacy and effects on treatment prescriptions of an algorithm-guided treatment regimen with treatment as usual (TAU) in depressed inpatients.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled efficacy and tolerability trial of Matricaria recutita (chamomile) extract therapy in patients with mild to moderate generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). We hypothesized that chamomile would be superior to placebo in reducing GAD symptoms with a comparable tolerability profile.
To present the data on a series of cases of holiday haemodialysis acquired hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections from two large dialysis units in Birmingham.
To describe severe manifestations of dengue in Vietnamese adults and to identify early indicators of these manifestations.
To study the prevalence of MCPyV in a large number of clinical samples of various types. Most of the samples were examined also for the other newly found polyomaviruses KI (KIPyV) and WU (WUPyV).
To investigate whether HBoV infection is associated with fetal hydrops, fetal anemia or isolated fetal effusions.
To investigate the epidemiologic and clinical impact of HRV-C strains in a fall outbreak interesting hospitalized patients.
The necessity to genotype and quantify HPV-DNA in cervical screening programs, in the follow up post-surgical treatments and in monitoring the effectiveness of HPV vaccination programs, requires access to economical, high-throughput and flexible molecular technologies.
To evaluate the frequency of detection of HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) and HBV-DNA in colostrum of HBV-infected nursing mothers before and after Holder pasteurization.
To analyze the molecular epidemiology of CA24v in recent outbreaks in Taiwan.
To examine the rate of intrafamilial transmission of HCV between patients and their household members.
To describe a transmission of HAdV from a patient with fatal pneumonia to heath-care workers that could be considered as a model of respiratory virus transmission in a care unit.
To report a case of BKVN in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and to examine viral and immune parameters.
To determine the prevalence of HCV genotypes in Italian injecting drug users and the distribution of genotypes in relation to the period when the infection was acquired.
Our goal was to maintain virological and immunological stability in patients experiencing virologic failure with multiresistant HIV to allow access to newly developed antiretroviral drugs, and to characterize the impact of partial-treatment interruption on replication capacity and resistance profile.
Description of two cases that highlight the existence of the "second diagnostic window phase" observed with commonly used sensitive 4th generation HIV assays.
To minimize these species-dependent changes, CACO-2 cells derived from human intestinal epithelium were used to isolate virus from influenza patients.
To verify the utility of BK virus (BKV) blood viral load measurement for PVAN screening in the renal transplant population, establish a threshold value, and determine the sensitivity and specificity of the test.
Our goals were to develop an algorithm to type enteroviruses which combines both serologic typing, based on indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) using type-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and genotyping, by DNA sequence analysis and to assess the correlation of both IFA and genotyping to traditional viral neutralization by type-specific antisera.
To study prevalence and genomic diversity of HRSV strains among children (&lt;5 years of age) with acute respiratory tract infection (ARTI) at Dr. B.C. Roy Memorial Hospital for Children, Kolkata, Eastern India.
To investigate the regulation of LOs during differentiation and cell adhesion of cultured keratinocytes.
To clarify the mechanism of development of pigmented spots induced by chronic UVB exposure.
To design a new HPV16 therapeutic vaccine using an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retrieval signal and study its ability to induce the specific CTL activity in vitro and in vivo.
To detect changes in the desmosomal molecular composition in Dsg3-/- mice and PV model mice to highlight the precise mechanism for acantholysis at an ultrastructural level.
To examine the effect of a dual stress combining IRI and hyperglycemia on human keratinocytes-its ability to cause oxidative damage and inflammatory response via the enzymes xanthine oxidase (XO) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS).
To describe the clinical and biological findings of two Japanese siblings with novel MPV17 gene mutations (c.451insC/c.509C &gt; T) manifesting hepatic mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome.
Review the literature for studies that give insight into parents' perceptions of the discharge process in order to assist health care providers in evaluating the available research and to identify any gaps in the literature.
To assess the relationship between life styles and eating habits with the overweight and obesity prevalence in a Spanish adult population.
To determine baseline KI and its 6-month evolution in HEN patients, and to assess its relation with the mortality rate.
to determine the rate of malnutrition in patients with Crohn's disease in our area (Substudy A). We assess in long-term the response of malnourished patients to treatment of nutritional supplement with TGF-beta2 (Substudy B).
To know the anthropometric and clinical characteristics of a children population sample, to study the prevalence and concurrence of cardiovascular risk factors in that sample, and to define the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in that population considering the blood pressure, HDL cholesterol, and fasting glycemia values, as well as the anthropometrical measurements.
A pilot study to assess the feasibility of implementing a hospital protocol for systematic nutritional screening of admitted patients.
To establish the relationship between presence of the family during the meals and depresion, food intake, and weight variation during hospitalization.
The aim of this study was to assess the association of overweight and obesity with insulin resistance, hypertension, and hyperlipidemic among 12 to 15 year olds from private and public schools in Chiapas.
To assess average dietary intake and how certain demographical and socio-economic factors have an influence on dietary habits of a sample of schoolchildren from Granada city.
To evaluate the quality of the diet, by means of an index of healthy nourishment (IAS) and percentage of adhesion to the Mediterranean diet (% ADM), of a teen population (n = 467) and their relation with different physiological parameters and sociodemográficos.
This study aims to identify birth weight variation according to maternal characteristics and gestational weight gain.
To estimate the prevalence and the average length of Lactation. To describe the development of the weight during the first year of life and the demand of paediatric consultations in relation to the type of lactation.
Qualitative and quantitative analysis of the evolution of HBEN use from 2002 to 2007. Trend and identification of the products with higher impact for the period 2006-2007. Patient's characteristics.
To evaluate nutritional status from a Mexican AR population, including body composition, anthropometrics and dietary patterns.
The objective of the study was to get a comprehensive picture of iodine content of mother's milk and to make recommendation for the level of iodine supplementation for pregnant and nursing women.
To investigate the coding of the visual and multisensory information in the tectal system, and to clarify the direction of visual information flow between the extrastriate cortex along the anterior ectosylvian sulcus and the lateral medialis-suprageniculate nucleus of the posterior thalamus.
The purpose of this study was to investigate specific features that indicate to community members that a person has a mental illness and the emotional reactions elicited by these features, in hopes of understanding barriers to the community integration of people living with mental illnesses.
This article focuses on the preliminary findings of a research project investigating the barriers to participation in education for persons using mental health services.
An important step in research using the Theory of Reasoned Action and Theory of Planned Behavior (TRA/TPB) is conducting an elicitation process to identify topic and population specific cognitions. This study explored HIV risk behaviors in persons with mental illnesses and introduces findings from focus groups conducted during the development phase of an HIV primary and secondary prevention intervention study.
Despite the piling evidence supporting the effectiveness of psychiatric medication, research has consistently shown that only about half of those administered treatment actually take it as prescribed. The purpose of the present study was to explore why and how people with a serious mental illness (SMI) choose to stop taking prescribed medication.
The present study examines knowledge of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) among individuals with serious mental illness.
This brief report addresses the systematic implementation of skills training modules for persons with schizophrenia or related disorders in three Dutch mental health agencies.
This brief report examines the implementation of a hybrid transitional-supported employment program using a social enterprise model to improve work skills and work behavior of people with psychiatric disabilities.
A six-step program development and evaluation method integrating recovery principles of empowerment and choice in healthcare decisions with theory driven research from the fields of health promotion and psychiatric rehabilitation is presented.
The aim of this study was to evaluate, whether the OPC instrument, which has been developed for hospital care, is valid and useful within primary healthcare for older people.
The aim of this study was to explore the meaning of the term 'integration' with reference to health, and underscore the need for integration of the healthcare systems.
To describe how the knowledge of pain management in the EPR can be utilized in nursing management.
To develop, validate and test the reliability of a measurement instrument that measures the extent to which records describe essential aspects of nursing care such as the admission report, nursing diagnoses, interventions, and progress and outcome evaluations.
The present study examined the prevalence of nurses' encounters and attitudes to these patients and factors that might influence attitudes.
The pilot study is a part of the Magnet hospital research project in Northern Savo in Finland, which is a collaboration between the University of Kuopio and Kuopio University Hospital (KUH) in 2006-2012. The purpose was to identify, describe and assess nurse staffing indicators from the data system of KUH. Donabedian's structure-process-outcome model (SPO) and the preliminary nurse staffing model by Partanen were used as a framework.
To summarize key recommendations and supporting evidence from the most recent studies evaluating the impact of bar coded medication administration (BCMA) systems, and the complementary technologies: Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE) and automated dispensing carts (ADC) in preventing medication errors and enhancing patent safety.
The aim of our research work is to present a laboratory prototype home care architecture that integrates data from different sources and uses a decision support system based on the HL7 standard Arden Syntax for Medical Logical Modules.
To describe the use of pain management documentation into TT- 2000+ and how the results can be implemented into clinical nursing practice. Can the results be used in development of clinical nursing practice? How does the evaluation of pain reflect into the number of documentation?
To examine the beliefs, behaviors, and knowledge of drivers concerning drunk driving and to compare those with greater or lesser perceptions of risk of being caught driving while impaired.
Many states are considering strengthening their graduated driving licensing (GDL) systems for teenage drivers but most do not know the level of public support for proposed upgrades. This study provides a method for states to identify specific demographic groups that may differ with regard to their awareness of teen driving risks, knowledge of current GDL law, and support for GDL upgrades.
The cause-specific annual death rate due to traffic injuries is around 30 in 100,000 in Iran. On the other hand, this country has the highest proportion of opiate users in the world. Little is known about the transient effect of opium on traffic injuries. The objective of this study was to explore the effect of opium consumption on traffic injuries in drivers who use opium.
In 2005, in terms of seat belt usage rates, Nevada ranked third nationally and first among states with secondary seat belt use enforcement laws in the United States. An effective combination of a media-based education and enforcement campaign helped in this regard. The objective of this article is to document the effectiveness of enforcement and media-based education and outreach campaigns on the seat belt usage rates in Nevada, a state with a secondary seat belt usage law.
ESC (Electronic Stability Control) is a crash avoidance technology that reduces the likelihood of collisions involving loss of control. Although past and emerging research indicates that ESC is effective in reducing collision rates and saving lives, and its inclusion in all vehicle platforms is encouraged, drivers may demonstrate behavioral adaptation or an overreliance on ESC that could offset or reduce its overall effectiveness. The main objective of the present study was to determine whether behavioral adaptation to ESC is likely to occur upon the widespread introduction of ESC into the Canadian vehicle fleet. Secondary objectives were to confirm the results of a previous ESC public survey and to generate a baseline measure for the future assessment of planned and ongoing ESC promotional activities in Canada.
This study examined the variation in the U.S. road fatality rate per distance driven across the months of the year.
The objective of the current study was to describe the burden of back-over collisions within the context of other child pedestrian collisions as identified through a pediatric emergency room injury surveillance database.
This research was conducted to examine the consequences of forewarning drivers about impending congestion on aggressive driving behavior. Some have argued that aggressive driving stems from frustration experienced on the roadway (often due to congestion), and that by warning drivers about congestion, frustration, and consequently aggressive driving, can be reduced.
To quantify the association of driver's age with the risk of being injured, dying, and experiencing injuries of different severity when involved in a motor vehicle crash.
To evaluate the relationship between regional economic conditions and the severity of injury suffered by victims of traffic crashes. This analysis augments the research on the relationship between economic conditions and traffic safety by focusing on injury severity per victim, which isolates the protective effect to individuals from other traffic safety effects such as crashes per mile and aggregate exposure to crashes.
To ascertain and describe the epidemiological pattern of RTIs in Iran for the years 2004 to 2007 and to compare the epidemiological trends of RTIs, before and 2 years after four road safety programs were put into place.
Driving simulation provides a convenient and safe method for assessing driving behaviors. Many authors, however, agree that validation is a key component of any study that utilizes simulators to assess driving performance. The purpose of this study was to test driver response validity by discerning whether behavioral responses of drivers, as expressed by type and number of errors, are similar on the road and in the simulator.
The goal of this study was to develop a mathematical model of the 50th percentile male lower extremity capable of predicting injury risk and simulating the kinetic and kinematic response of the pedestrian lower extremity under vehicle impact loading.
To review the recent experimental and clinical evidence on existing therapeutic algorithms and investigational drugs used for the treatment of ADHF.
A comprehensive review of the recent literature on the effect of prostaglandins and their agonists on bone mineral density and fracture healing.
Although a large number of antidepressant drugs (from monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants to dual reuptake inhibitors) are available for treatment of the disease, approximately 30% of patients failed to respond to this therapy. Therefore, the search for newer or novel drug targets for the treatment of major depression continues. Some of these targets include dopamine, triple reuptake inhibition, L-arginine-nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) pathway, sigma-1 receptors, neurosteroids, melatonin, glutamate, 5HT6, 5HT7 serotonin receptor antagonists, beta-3 adrenoceptor antagonist, vasopressin V(Ib) receptor antagonists, NK2 tachykinin receptor antagonists, glucocorticoid receptor antagonists and corticotropin-releasing factor-1 receptor antagonists, as well as herbal antidepressant drugs. The present review attempts to discuss the status of some of these novel approaches and the drugs that are under investigation for the treatment of major depression. An attempt is also made to review the status of three indigenous plant-derived drugs, berberine, curcumin and rutin, as novel and safe future herbal antidepressants.
The aim of this article is to review the potential use of glutamate receptor antagonists as innovative neuronally targeted treatments of migraine.
To describe the efficacy and safety of rituximab and the TPO mimetics, romiplostim and eltrombopag, and how they relate to ITP pathogenesis.
To prospectively compare the efficacy of marsupialization or silver nitrate application in the treatment of Bartholin gland cysts abscesses, both of which are widely used as outpatient procedures.
Women have an increased risk of knee osteoarthritis (OA). However, little is known about gender differences in cartilage health before the onset of clinical knee OA. The aim of this study was to examine whether there are longitudinal gender differences in knee cartilage in a cohort of healthy, asymptomatic adults with no clinical knee disease.
The aim of this study was to assess the capability of a single measurement of antimullerian hormone (AMH) to predict menopause status in late reproductive-aged women.
The aim of this study was to compare, in normotensive postmenopausal women, the effects of drospirenone/estradiol and norethisterone acetate/estradiol on blood pressure and other surrogate markers of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular risk.
The aim of this study was to identify provider characteristics associated with hormone therapy prescribing.
The aim of this study was to undertake a prospective study of the changes in certain risk factors for cardiovascular disease occurring during menopause.
Obesity is a risk factor for all-cause mortality. The obesity incidence depends on different definitions. Among patients with high-risk coronary heart disease (HRCA), we have studied differences in obesity incidence, according to different anthropometric indices.
Echocardiographic measurement of right ventricular function in patients with atrial septal defect (ASD) is challenging. The Doppler myocardial performance index (MPI) may provide a method of assessing function in these patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate right ventricular function and its changes after transcatheter closure in patients with ASD using MPI by tissue Doppler imaging (TDI).
Cardiac computed tomography (CT) and conventional biplane ventriculography are established methods for the determination of ventricular function. Recently dual source CT was introduced for cardiac CT scanning providing a temporal resolution of 83 ms independent of the patient's heart rate. The purpose of this study was to assess the global left ventricular function using retrospectively ECG-gated dual source computed tomography (DSCT) in comparison to conventional ventriculography.
Fish-oil contains high concentrations of omega-3 fatty acids that have been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties. We have evaluated the effects of purified omega-3 fatty acid supplements on several anthropometric and biochemical parameters, including heat shock protein (Hsp) 27 antibody titres in subjects with metabolic syndrome.
The development of left ventricular remodelling (LVR) after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is a predictor of heart failure and mortality. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is highly susceptible to ischaemic injury. Laminin and collagen type VI (CVI) contribute to ECM formation in the infarct zone. To determine whether these markers can be detected in blood samples, we measured laminin and CVI in patients with AMI and control subjects.
Previous studies have shown that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) could reverse structural and electrical atria remodelling and decrease atrial fibrillation (AF) onset or recurrence. The aim of this retrospective study was to investigate whether ACEIs/ARBs had beneficial effects on ablation outcome of chronic persistent AF.
The aim of this study is to report the characteristics of myocardial bridging (MB) using 64-slice computed tomography and to demonstrate the association between atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) and MB.
Outcome of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) has markedly improved due to ACE-inhibitors, beta-blockers and implantable defibrillators over the last decades. Aims were both the determination of current mortality rates and the improvement of left ventricular function over time with regard to different baseline factors.
The purpose of this study was to estimate the prevalence of diabetes and impaired fasting glucose (IFG) and their associated risk factors in the hypertensive rural Chinese.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the association between beta-fibrinogen gene -455G/A polymorphism and the plasma fibrinogen level in Chinese patients with different subtypes of coronary heart disease (CHD).
To investigate whether isolated congenital ductus arteriosus aneurysm (DAA) is caused by loss of function of mutations in the elastin gene (ELN), we screened the elastin gene, which has been proposed as a candidate gene in DAA.
It is well known that the traditional cardiac risk factors (TCRFs) affect short-term and long-term outcome following coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). The objective of this study was to detect the prevalence of these risk factors i.e., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidaemia, smoking and family history of premature CAD in an Iranian population undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.
This study investigates the relationship between post-heparin plasma lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity, chronic inflammation and premature stable coronary artery disease (CAD) in male patients.
A pilot exploration is done to search frequencies of structural heart involvement, arrhythmias and heart rate variability (HRV) in AS patients.
Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease characterized by extensive remodelling of the extracellular matrix architecture of the arterial wall. Recent data suggested the participation of lysosomal cysteine proteases such as cathepsin S (CTSS) in atherogenesis. The G/A polymorphism at nucleotide -25 was reported to be located in the promoter of the CTSS gene. The aim of this study was to observe the association between CTSS -25G/A polymorphism and the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in a Chinese population sample.
To assess the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome and its risk factors, Mongolian people from Inner Mongolia were studied.
The aim of our investigation was to assess the influence of rosuvastatin therapy and myocardial revascularization on angiogenic growth factors in coronary artery disease patients.
To evaluate the results of embolization in patients with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) because of severe epistaxis.
This prospective study aimed to assess treatment outcome on olfaction in patients undergoing Endoscopic Sinus Surgery (ESS) for nasal polyposis, and to evaluate the role of previous sinus surgery and the duration of olfactory deficit as prognostic factors for olfaction improvement.
To study the immune function of adult Chinese patients with chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) to elucidate its potential role in the pathogenesis of CRS.
To investigate the effects of experimental left varicocele (ELV) on the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (Flt-1) proteins in the testis and epididymis of adolescent rats, and to find out the correlation of the two proteins with varicocele-induced male infertility.
To identify the genes involved in sperm motility.
To explore the influence of non-gonococcal Neisseria on the diagnosis and treatment of male genitourinary infection.
To explore the effects of carbendazim on the testicular development and spermatogenic function of male rats and its action mechanism.
To determine the expressions of ryanodine receptor type 1 (RyR1) and Cav1.3 L-type calcium channel (Cav1.3) in the vaginal smooth muscle cells of castrated rats and investigate the correlation of RyR1 and Cav1.3 with estrogen in female sexual dysfunction.
To investigate the in vivo effects of nanosized titanium dioxide (TiO2) on the main organs, particularly the reproductive system, of male mice.
To investigate the effects of CO release inhibitor zinc protoporphyria IX (ZnPP IX) and NO release inhibitor L-NAME on the content of cGMP in the penile tissue of rats.
To investigate the feasibility of one-stage phallic reconstruction with the extended pudendal-thigh flap (EPTF) to achieve a higher survival rate, shorter surgical cycle, and more experimental evidence for the clinical application of the technique.
To explore the relationship between physical and biological effects of alternating magnetic field and study the influence of the magnetic field on the reproductive function of murine testes.
To detect the expression of high mobility group protein A (HMGA) in male mouse testicular cell lines TM4, GC-1spg and GC-2spd(ts), and to pave the theoretical ground for further investigation of the action mechanism of the HMGA gene in male mouse spermatogenesis.
To evaluate the outcome of the combination of short-period sperm-oocyte coincubation with early rescue intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) after complete failure of in vitro fertilization (IVF).
To search for a safe and convenient surgical method for management of urethral disruption.
To evaluate the association between vasectomy and prostate cancer.
To study the impact of glycosides of tripterygium wilfordii (GTW) on fertility, and the reversibility of this impact following intervention with cistanche deserticola (CD) and after withdrawal of GTW.
To compare the clinical effect of total hip arthroplasty (THA) using posterolateral conventional or minimally invasive incision.
To investigate the causes and the clinical treatment methods of postoperative wound complications following total knee arthroplasty (TKA).
To investigate the therapeutic effect of open reduction, bone grafting, and internal fixation with plastic ti-alloy plate on intra-articular calcaneal fracture.
To investigate the operative technique of treating Freiberg's disease with dorsal wedge osteotomy and absorbable pin fixation, and to evaluate the clinical outcome.
To explore the operative method and the clinical outcomes of repairing acromioclavicular dislocation by clavicular hook plate internal fixation and coracoacromial ligament transposition.
To investigate the method of using vacuum sealing drainage (VSD) technique to repair the wound of the injured in Wenchuan earthquake and its therapeutic effect.
To investigate the operative method of repairing soft tissue defect of finger with modified reverse dorsal digital fascia flap and its clinical effect of preventing and treating venous crisis.
To investigate a method of repairing hypospadias by combining buccal mucosal graft with scrotal flap and its therapeutic effect.
To research the operative method and the clinical efficacy of repairing and reconstructing tendon and ligament with allograft tendon.
To explore the histological and the hematological change of rabbits after implanting novel injectable artificial nucleus prostheses, and to evaluate the biological safety.
To observe the effect of different dosage of curcumin on expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in the tissue of cystiform in air-pouch mouse models after the injection of polyethylene wear particles, and to investigate its mechanism of intervening inflammatory response induced by wear particles.
To detect the influence of raloxifene (RLX) on fracture healing in rabbit.
To evaluate the effects of XiangLingGuBao (XLGB) on femoral fracture healing in ovariectomized (OVX) rats.
To explore the method of inducing axial vascularization in a processed bovine cancellous bone scaffold by using an arteriovenous loop, and to evaluate its effect of vascularization.
To investigate the preventive effect of TGF-beta1 neutralizing antibody on collagen production and adhesion formation of flexor tendon.
To compare the effects of two different cryoprotectants on human desmoglein 1 (Dsg 1), and to provide experimental basis for the optimization of cryoprotectant.
To observe the effect of chitosan/alginate (CTS/ALG) dressings on wound immersed in seawater.
To investigate the inhibitory effect of Col I A1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ASODN) transfection mediated by cationic liposome on Col I A1 expression in human hypertrophic scar fibroblasts.
To explore the effect of hydroxybutyl chitosan on the prevention of postoperative peritoneal adhesion in rats.
To investigate the protective effect of propofol on ischemia/reperfusion induced spinal cord injury in rabbits and its influence on excitatory amino acid (EAA).
To isolate and culture adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs), and to study the effects of the conditioned medium of ADSCs (ADSC-CM) treated with insulin on HaCaT cells.
To study the effect of autogeneic PRP on proliferation and osteogenetic differentiation of human adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) in vitro.
To study the method of isolating and culturing synovium-derived MSCs (SMSCs), and to investigate its multiple differentiation potential in vitro.
To explore the expression of Wnt-1 during the process of inducing neural stem cells (NSCs) into neurons by using all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) in vitro and the effect of Wnt-1 on NSCs differentiation.
To evaluate the cytocompatibility of Arg-Gly-Asp-recombinant spider silk protein (pNSR16)/ poly vinyl alcohol (PVA) through in vitro cytotoxicity experiment and cell-material co-culture experiment.
To investigate the effect of BMSCs on the repair of digestive tract injury and its mechanisms.
To review the role of hypoxia inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) in hypoxic-ischemic injury and its repair, and to analyze the possible mechanisms.
To review the progress in the treatment of chronic Achilles tendon rupture.
To summarize the surgical technique and the clinical results of small acetabular components combined with medial protrusio technique in primary total hip arthroplasty (THA) for the treatment of Crowe type IV congenital hip dislocation (CHD).
Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has been widely used in China. More and more attentions are paid to the development of knee prosthesis that fit for the anatomy of Chinese knee. This study is to summarize the surgical techniques and clinical outcome of domestic posterior-stabilized total knee arthroplasty.
The long-term biological effects of HA-coated prostheses remain uncertain. The purpose of the study is to analyze the reasons of coating shedding of uncemented hip prothesis, so as to provide evidences for the preventions and treatment.
To explore clinical effects of comprehensive rehabilitation therapy for function restore of hip joint after minimally invasive total hip arthroplasty.
To investigate the volume of pulse lavage sufficient for removal of intraoperative bone and polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) particles.
To observe the short-term results of Swanson double-stem silicone implant arthroplasty in the treatment of late stage Freiberg disease.
To monitor and analyze the arthroplasty related infection situations of Drum Tower Hospital, so as to provide evidences for the prevention of infection after arthroplasty.
To evaluate the short-term effects of ankle joint replacement for the patients with hemophilic arthritis. To find out the main points for improving the joint function and the patients' life quality. To accumulate more experience for clinical treatment.
To study the short-term results of metal on metal hip resurfacing arthroplasty (HRA) for the treatment of patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), to explore the indications and technology of this surgery.
To evaluate the therapeutic effects of knife needle on third lumbar transverse process syndrome.
To study therapeutic effects of embracing knee and rolling lumbar (EKRL) training on the pain and the function of lumbar of patients with degenerative osteoarthritis of lumbar spine.
To analyze imageology manifestation of perilunar dislocation, to improve recognition and diagnose of the perilunar dislocation.
To study the biomechanical properties of self-designed calcaneal anatomical plate and pre-cut gudgeon system and its efficacy for calcaneal fracture fixation.
To investigate the expression of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in osteoarthritis chondrocytes, and the relationship between CTGF, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and cartilage degeneration.
To investigate the anatomy and clinical application of thoracic transverse process using as the position for thoracic pedicle screw implantation.
To explore the cause and mechanism of irritable bowel syndrome, and to study the relationship between irritable bowel syndrome and unstable thoracolumbar vertebrae.
To investigate methods and therapeutic effects of sequential drugs treatment for central pain following spinal cord injury.
To investigate the value of 3-dimensional CT in the treatment of developmental dislocation of hip (DDH).
The aim of the paper is to find whether the retrobulbar optic nerve thickened and if there was a correlation between its possible thickening and the thickness of the muscles in Graves ophthalmopathy. We also wished to test the theory of compressive aetiology of such thickening using a 30-degree test.
The aim of the research was to perform a detailed analysis of acoustic structure of the vowel A before and after voice treatment in patients with vocal fold nodules in order to obtain objective verification of the vocal rehabilitation success.
This study analyses pre- and postoperative pathoanatomic characteristics of triple in comparison to Salter and Chiari osteotomies, with a logistic regression analysis of outcome predictor and effect explanator factors in relation to the chosen type of operation.
The aim of our study was to analyze the demographic and clinicopathological characteristics of patients operated on for Barrett's, cardia and distal gastric adenocarcinomas, as well as to study the influence of manifestations of each cancerogenetic indication on the studied clinicopathological parameters and to analyze the 5-year survival rate of patients surgically treated for cardia adenocarcinoma in relation to the patients operated on for distal gastric adenocarcinoma.
The aim of the research was to establish serum concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP), alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (alpha 1-AGP), ceruloplasmine (CP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (SE) before and after the balneotherapy in ankylosing spondylitis.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the difference in complication rate between different ureteric stone litho-tripsy modalities.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the following question for its potential usefulness as a determinant of patient readiness for amplification: "On a scale from 1 to 10, 1 being the worst and 10 being the best, how would you rate your overall hearing ability?"
To summarize the issues surrounding cochlear implant candidates with SSCN as well as highlight trends in performance postimplantation.
This study evaluated the effect of wearing a cochlear implant in one ear and a digital hearing aid in the opposite ear on speech recognition and localization.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the IOI-HA and to establish normative data in a veteran sample.
To determine the presentation level methods that resulted in maximum suprathreshold phoneme-recognition scores while avoiding loudness discomfort.
The hydroxyapatite coating of an implant surface provides osteoactive conditions that can support osteointegration of cementless joint arthroplasties. However, the possibilities of hydroxyapatite degradation, resorption and delamination that may become responsible for failure of total hip arthroplasty (THA) have been reported. The aim of the study was to assess the properties of Arbond hydroxyapatite coating by comparing the long-term survival of implants identical in construction but different in surface coating.
It is the aim of our study to present the results of our way of treatment of the periprosthetic fractures, with the cemented as well as the cement-free stems.
To analyse retrospectively complications of the surgical treatment of displaced acetabular fractures.
To provide a detailed description of the Ponseti method and report the first results of its use, including factors that played a role.
To present a new type of percutaneous compression plate (PCP) for a minimally invasive method of treating trochanteric hip fractures.
One of the causes of pain on the ulnar side of the wrist is post-traumatic lunotriquetral (LTq) instability, which is difficult to detect on radiographs. For diagnosis, arthroscopic examination is most reliable. The methods for treatment of LTq instability include mere immobilization, ligament reconstructions and LTq joint stabilization with Kirschner's wires in acute conditions, and stabilization of the LTq joint by tenodesis or arthrodesis. In this study our method of treating chronic isolated injury to the lunotriquetral ligament is described.
To evaluate the results of the dorsal longitudinal tendon-splitting approach for surgical treatment of Haglund's deformity and associated conditions.
To analyze our results of screening for developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) in the Liberec region between 1984 and 2005
Calcareous tendinitis (calcifying tendinitis) of the shoulder is a disease characterized by the formation of macroscopic deposits of hydroxyapatite (a crystalline calcium phosphate) in any tendon of the rotator cuff. It presents clinically as sudden intense pain flares resembling gout. It can be treated most effectively by invasive methods such as surgery or needling. The latter is associated with lower risks and fewer organizational and financial demands. The aim of this study is to promote the use of needling in orthopaedic outpatient departments where ultrasonography is available for diagnosis and guided intervention.
A retrospective analysis of patients with thoracolumbar junction fractures who underwent video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery via a minimally invasive approach (minithoracotomy) for reconstruction of the anterior spinal column.
To evaluate the outcome of total hip arthroplasty (THA) performed for femoral neck fracture in patients with a paralytic hip.
The author reports on a case of hyperviscosity syndrome resulting from a long-term stay at extremely high altitudes. As a consequence, the patient lost the acral parts of the first and second toes on both lower extremities.
This article explores the role of breastfeeding in different aspects of vaccination in the first 6 months when infants are still developing: (1) pain management; (2) immunomodulation of infants' vaccine responses; (3) metabolism of thimerosal.
Neonatal resuscitation program (NRP) course is effective in improving knowledge in participants coming from developed as well as developing countries; however, its impact on practical performances has not been yet formally evaluated in participants coming from developing countries. We evaluate the knowledge and the performance on clinical simulations gained by Iraqi residents following participation in the NRP course.
To test the hypotheses that body size is reduced and body composition altered in preterm infants at hospital discharge.
To investigate differences in maturation of germ cells in cryptorchid testes in three different regions.
To characterize age-related changes in brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER) at different click rates from neonates to adults.
The aim of the study was to evaluate motor performance in 5-year-old children with mild-to-moderate developmental speech and language disorders (DSLD) in comparison of age- and gender-matched healthy children.
The present study investigates associations between autonomic cardiovascular dysregulation, psychosocial load and mental health in adolescents presenting with chronic fatigue.
Except bacterial meningitis, the agents causing acute central nervous system (CNS) infections in children are disclosed in only approximately half of the cases, and even less in encephalitis. We studied the potential of modern microbiological assays to improve this poor situation.
Children with motor disabilities are at increased risk of compromised bone health due to impaired weight bearing. Poor nutritional status may be an additional risk factor. The aim of this study was to evaluate energy and nutrient intakes in children with motor disability.
To reduce the acoustic noise during MRI for neonatal patients. If effective, this would create a safer environment and also result in fewer aborted examinations due to poor image quality from patient motion.
To describe two Chinese siblings of atypical Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS), with genetic diagnosis and special clinical manifestation.
To evaluate whether children with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) type II were able to learn glossopharyngeal pistoning for lung insufflation (GI), and to evaluate the effects of GI on pulmonary function and chest expansion.
Evaluation of the coverage of primary diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP), poliomyelitis, hepatitis B (HBV) and measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine doses recommended before the age of 18 months in 7-year-old school children in Flanders, Belgium. Meningococcal serogroup C and DT-polio vaccines offered respectively as catch-up and booster vaccinations were also evaluated.
To study if infant crying is associated with maternal postnatal depression.
To investigate the associations of some family characteristics with adolescents' self-reported emotional/behavioural problems.
The relationship was investigated between endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) level and arterial functions in the convalescence of Kawasaki disease (KD).
The aim of this study was to estimate the incidence and identify independent risk factors for nosocomial infections in a Danish Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and to compare these findings with international results.
To study the accuracy of various clinical and investigational parameters to differentiate biliary atresia (BA) from neonatal hepatitis (NH).
To identify the maternal and infant characteristics associated with an early transition from full breastfeeding to complementary or no breastfeeding during the first 2 months of life in a large, representative cohort of Australian infants.
To explore whether physicians behave differently regarding ethics and respect for privacy depending on children's age. We explored whether physician behaviours contributed to child uneasiness.
To establish the characteristics of infants with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected mothers enrolled under a two-stage universal newborn hearing screening programme in Lagos, Nigeria.
To evaluate naturalistic use of risperidone long-acting injection (RLAI) and its effect on healthcare resource use.
The aim of this study was to examine the relationship of language competence level and mental distress in teenagers with hearing impairments.
To examine factors contributing to variance in functional outcome in first-episode psychosis (FEP) following 1 year of treatment.
We explored the subjective effects associated with olanzapine, risperidone and older antipsychotics.
In order to choose the best treatment option, physicians have to inform themselves and their patients about both the benefits and risks of available treatment options equally. Our study aims to investigate whether psychiatrists actually do conduct such a balanced information search and presentation.
The aim was to elucidate the relationship between psychotic and behavioural symptoms in the elderly.
Our aim was to present recent studies of alcohol use disorders (AUDs) in patients with schizophrenia, estimate overall prevalence and characteristics affecting the prevalence of AUDs.
To examine: i) changes in key outcome measures over time in treatment in a representative first-episode psychosis treatment cohort and ii) baseline predictors of service disengagement.
Symptomatic remission was defined as a score of mild or less on each of eight key schizophrenia symptoms on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS-8). To evaluate the symptomatic remission criterion in clinical practice and to determine predictors for achieving symptomatic remission, a 12-week non-interventional study (NIS) with quetiapine was conducted in Germany.
Subjective quality of life (QOL) is dependent upon culture and its evaluation based on one's particular belief system. This study aimed to examine the subjective QOL of Nigerian out-patients with schizophrenia and its correlates.
To test faecal DNA and calprotectin as potential biomarkers of intestinal toxicity caused by pelvic radiotherapy.
To compare prevalence and interactions of fructose malabsorption, lactose malabsorption and ERBHAL among healthy subjects and those with chronic intestinal disorders using consistent breath hydrogen testing methodologies.
To determine whether rapid and early virological responses (RVR and EVR) could predict SVR and help optimize treatment in these patients.
To review systematically the efficacy of azathioprine (AZA) and mercaptopurine (MP) in UC, and to conduct a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of AZA/MP for the induction or maintenance of UC clinical remission.
To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies on the association between serum 25 hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) and the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC).
To compare the risk factors, clinical symptoms and PPI responses between patients with erosive oesophagitis and NERD patients.
To compare the pharmacodynamic efficacy of esomeprazole and lansoprazole at two dosages for intragastric pH control with Barrett's oesophagus.
To identify dietary constituents as risk factors for development of IBD and the therapeutic efficacy of dietary modifications or enteral nutrition in IBD.
The patient-centered medical home (PCMH) is a widely accepted theory of a practice model to improve quality of care, patient satisfaction, and access to primary care services. This study explores existing elements of the PCMH and characteristics of family practices in Virginia.
New approaches to chronic disease management emphasize the need to improve the delivery of primary care services to meet the needs of chronically ill patients. This study (1) assessed whether chronic disease management differed among 4 models of primary health care delivery and (2) identified which practice organizational factors were independently associated with high-quality care.
Studies suggest peer-led self-management training improves chronic illness outcomes by enhancing illness management self-efficacy. Limitations of most studies, however, include use of multiple outcome measures without predesignated primary outcomes and lack of randomized follow-up beyond 6 months. We conducted a 1-year randomized controlled trial of Homing in on Health (HIOH), a Chronic Disease Self-Management Program variant, addressing these limitations.
In this study, we compared the rate of depression diagnoses in adults with and without diabetes mellitus, while carefully controlling for number of primary care visits.
While historic medical oaths and numerous contemporary medical organizations offer guidelines for professionalism, the nature of the professional aspirations, commitments, and values of current medical students is not well known. We sought to provide a thematic catalogue of individual mission statements written by medical students nationally.
We wanted to explore test results management systems in family medicine offices and to delineate the components of quality in results management.
The obesity epidemic in children is spreading at alarming rates. Because musculoskeletal problems can influence physical activity, we compared the frequency of musculoskeletal problems in overweight and obese children with that in normal-weight children.
To investigate the stability of tramadol hydrochloride 100mg associated with droperidol 2.5mg in 100ml of 5% dextrose solution stored at 5+/-3 degrees C.
To assess the knowledge and perceptions of staff working in private dispensaries in Abidjan as regards bacterial resistance.
Adult patients with congenital heart disease presenting for cardiothoracic operation pose special demands for the arrangement of their perioperative care. This study describes the distinctive perioperative setup for adult congenital heart patients.
We developed an individualized off-pump approach in an all internal thoracic artery (AITA) composite graft revascularization (AITACR) program to minimize postoperative neurological complications and to obtain the best long-term results possible. Early results of the individualized approach are reported.
The aim of this study was to review characteristics of patients undergoing left ventricular reconstruction (LVR) with or without mitral annuloplasty (MAP) for postinfarction ventricular remodeling.
Using real-time quantitative methylation-specific PCR (RTQ-MSP), methylated RUNX3 sequences were quantified and the fractional concentrations of circulating tumor DNA in serum were determined, along with peripheral blood cells collected preoperatively, intraoperatively and postoperatively from 65 patients with gastric cancer.
The main objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of long-term BP use on calcium homeostasis in MBC patients. The secondary objective was to assess Vitamin D levels in these patients.
To investigate the risk of pelvic lymph node metastasis in patients with a preoperative diagnosis of early endometrial cancer with favorable histological characteristics, assessed by complete pelvic lymphadenectomy.
The mean age of diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is in the mid-fifties. Limited data exist about the clinical outcome of patients aged below 35 years. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the cancer-related characteristics, intraoperative findings, surgical outcome and survival in this group of young women.
To validate the diagnosis of self-reported stroke using stroke identified by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as the standard.
To describe the clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) follow-up of patients with subclinical demyelinating lesions that fulfill the Barkhof/Tintoré criteria.
To localize susceptibility genes for alterations in brain structure associated with risk of stroke and dementia. We conducted genomewide linkage analyses for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of brain atrophy, ventricular, and subcortical white matter hyperintensity (leukoaraiosis) in 689 non-Hispanic white (673 sibling pairs; median age, 61 years) and 544 non-Hispanic black participants (503 sibling pairs; median age, 64 years) from sibships with at least 2 members with essential hypertension.
To establish the relationship between cigarette smoking and progression of MS using clinical and magnetic resonance imaging outcomes
To assess the incidence, severity, and spectrum of neurologic toxic effects associated with administration of amiodarone hydrochloride.
To determine whether elevated levels of organochlorine pesticides are present in the serum of patients with PD.
To examine the integrity of the default mode network in patients with Parkinson disease (PD). Previous functional neuroimaging experiments have studied executive deficits in patients with PD with regard to task-related brain activation. However, recent studies suggest that executive performance also relies on the integrity of the default mode network (ie, medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, and lateral parietal and medial temporal cortices), characterized by a deactivation of these cortical areas during the performance of executive tasks.
To summarize for the neurologist the knowledge about fistula between the left atrium and esophagus occurring after RAF.
To explore whether the apathy manifested in frontotemporal dementia (FTD), with its predominantly anterior brain neuropathologic features, differs from the apathy in dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT), with its predominantly hippocampal- and temporoparietal-based neuropathologic features, and to determine whether other behavioral disturbances reported in frontosubcortical circuit syndromes correlate with apathy.
To report priapism as a unique clinical manifestation of infantile transverse myelitis.
To report a novel PME syndrome.
To assess the long-term clinical outcomes of implantation of a lens consisting of a biocompatible collagen copolymer (Visian implantable Collamer lens [ICL]; STAAR Surgical, Nidau, Switzerland) for moderate to high myopia.
To evaluate the efficacy of adjunctive treatments to decrease herpes simplex keratitis (HSK) recurrences in patients with simultaneous stromal HSK and dry eye disease.
To determine if panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) alters retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness and optic nerve appearance.
To describe new features and ocular coherence tomographic scans of individuals with West African crystalline maculopathy (WACM).
To determine whether there is an increased prevalence of systemic autoimmune diseases in both patients with white spot syndromes (WSS) and their family members.
To explore the feasibility of obtaining a local measurement of the thickness of the retinal ganglion cell layer in patients with glaucoma using frequency-domain optical coherence tomography (fdOCT) and a computer-aided manual segmentation procedure.
To determine the effect of a topical antagonist to the chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) in a murine model of dry eye disease.
To examine the relationship between peripheral artery disease (PAD) and glaucoma.
To determine the prevalence of tilted and torted optic discs and associated risk factors among Chinese adults in Singapore.
To identify payments and changes in payments for glaucoma surgical procedures among Medicare beneficiaries in the United States and to evaluate trends in costs based on the types of procedures being performed.
To report clinical and functional findings in 2 female carriers of choroideremia who were followed up for 11 and 17 years and who showed progression of fundus alterations; and to report a novel CHM mutation.
To study the phenotypic characteristics of patients with a novel p.E292K mutation in BEST1.
To determine the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of 3 different dosages of CP-690,550, a potent, orally active JAK inhibitor, in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in whom methotrexate, etanercept, infliximab, or adalimumab caused an inadequate or toxic response.
To examine fibronectin (FN) expression in human lupus nephritis and the effect of anti-DNA antibodies on transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) and FN synthesis in cultured human mesangial cells. The effects of mycophenolic acid (MPA) on this pathway, and the effects of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) treatment in (NZB x NZW)F(1)/J mice were also studied.
There is a great need for identification of biomarkers that could improve the prediction of early osteoarthritis (OA). We undertook this study to determine whether circulating levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), and C-reactive protein (CRP) can serve as useful markers of radiographic knee OA (RKOA) in a normal human population.
HLA-B27 predisposes to spondylarthritis by an unknown mechanism. A logical candidate mechanism is through recognition of B27 by CD8+ T cells. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a lack of CD8 on the spondylarthritis that develops in B27/human beta(2)-microglobulin (Hubeta(2)m)-transgenic rats.
To investigate whether patients with idiopathic recurrent acute anterior uveitis (AAU) have enthesis alterations comparable with those in patients with spondylarthritis (SpA).
B cell depletion with rituximab has allowed remissions in relapsing or refractory antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis in small studies. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of rituximab for ANCA-associated vasculitis in a larger multicenter cohort. This permitted comparison of rituximab dosing regimens, the value of continuing immunosuppression, and investigation of ANCA and B cell levels as re-treatment biomarkers.
We have previously identified in articular cartilage an abundant pool of the heparin-binding growth factor, fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2), which is bound to the pericellular matrix heparan sulfate proteoglycan, perlecan. This pool of FGF-2 activates chondrocytes upon tissue loading and is released following mechanical injury. In vitro, FGF-2 suppresses interleukin-1-driven aggrecanase activity in human cartilage explants, suggesting a chondroprotective role in vivo. We undertook this study to investigate the in vivo role of FGF-2 in murine cartilage.
Fibromyalgia (FM) patients have signs of relentless sympathetic hyperactivity associated with hyporeactivity to stress. Adrenergic receptors (ARs) are parts of the sympathetic nervous system that are fundamental for maintenance of homeostasis. We undertook this study to correlate alpha-AR and beta-AR gene polymorphisms with the presence of FM and with different domains of the FM syndrome as measured by the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ).
Human Hsp60 is expressed in the joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and can elicit a regulatory T cell response in the peripheral blood and synovial fluid. However, Hsp60 can also trigger strong proinflammatory pathways. Thus, to understand the nature of these Hsp60-directed responses in RA, it is necessary to study such responses at the molecular, epitope-specific level. This study was undertaken to characterize the disease specificity and function of pan-DR-binding Hsp60-derived epitopes as possible modulators of autoimmune inflammation in RA.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a multisystem vasculitis affecting children and is characterized by immune activation in the acute stage of disease. Systemic inflammation eventually subsides, although coronary arteritis persists, resulting in aneurysm formation. KD is the leading cause of acquired heart disease among children in North America. Accepted treatment guidelines include high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and aspirin in the acute phase. Although this therapy is effective, the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved are not clear. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of IVIG and salicylate at each stage of disease development.
Radiographic hip osteoarthritis (RHOA) is associated with increased hip areal bone mineral density (aBMD). This study was undertaken to examine whether femoral geometry is associated with RHOA independent of aBMD.
The ANP32A gene encodes a tumor suppressor molecule that plays a regulatory role in apoptosis and interferes with canonical Wnt signaling in vitro. We undertook this study to test whether genetic variation at ANP32A was associated with osteoarthritis (OA) in women.
Elevated levels of BAFF and APRIL are characteristic of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The reasons for enhanced cytokine production are not well understood. This study was undertaken to identify the cells responsible for the overproduction of these cytokines.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have long been considered excellent targets for osteoarthritis (OA) treatment. However, clinical utility of broad-spectrum MMP inhibitors developed for this purpose has been restricted by dose-limiting musculoskeletal side effects observed in humans. This study was undertaken to identify a new class of potent and selective MMP-13 inhibitors that would provide histologic and clinical efficacy without musculoskeletal toxicity.
Using a combination of clinical, radiographic, functional, and serum protein biomarker assessments, this study was aimed at defining the prevalence and clinical characteristics of interstitial lung disease (ILD) in a large cohort of patients with anti-Jo-1 antibodies.
Interferon regulatory factor 5 is a transcription factor involved in type I interferon (IFN) secretion. This study was undertaken to investigate whether a 5-bp (CGGGG insertion/deletion) promoter polymorphism is involved in genetic predisposition to primary Sjögren's syndrome (SS) and to assess the functional consequences of this polymorphism.
Obesity protects against radiographic joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) through poorly defined mechanisms. Adipocytokines are produced in adipose tissue and modulate inflammatory responses and radiographic joint damage in animal models. The purpose of this study was to examine the hypothesis that adipocytokines modulate inflammation and radiographic joint damage in patients with RA.
Tuberculosis (TB) is associated with anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapy, but whether this association is drug-specific remains a concern. Our objective was to describe cases of TB associated with anti-TNF mAb therapy, identify risk factors, and estimate the incidence.
To study the expression of small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 (SUMO-1) in aseptic loosening of prosthesis implants and to investigate its role in regulating the susceptibility of prosthesis-loosening fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) to Fas-induced apoptosis.
The association of HLA-DRB1 alleles with anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) suggests the potential involvement of T lymphocytes in ACPA-seropositive disease. The purpose of this study was to investigate this hypothesis by systematic histologic and molecular analyses of synovial T cells in ACPA+ versus ACPA- RA patients.
Single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs143383 (T to C) in the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) of GDF5 has recently been reported to be associated with osteoarthritis (OA) susceptibility, with lower expression of the risk-associated T allele observed in vitro and in vivo. The in vivo studies were performed on cartilage tissue from OA patients. The present study was undertaken to expand the analysis of the effect of this SNP on GDF5 allelic expression to more joint tissue types, to investigate for cis and trans factors that interact with the SNP, and to examine novel cis-acting GDF5 regulatory polymorphisms.
Subtypes of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) share phenotypic features with other autoimmune disorders. We investigated several genetic variants associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and other autoimmune disorders for association with JIA to test the hypothesis that clinically distinct phenotypes share common genetic susceptibility factors.
Endogenous glucocorticoids (GCs) modulate numerous biologic systems involved in the initiation and maintenance of arthritis. Bone cells play a critical role in the progression of arthritis, and some of the effects of GCs on inflammation may be mediated via these cells. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of osteoblast-targeted disruption of GC signaling on joint inflammation, cartilage damage, and bone metabolism in the K/BxN mouse serum transfer model of autoimmune arthritis.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a proinflammatory protein with a critical role in leukocyte migration. Although OPN has been implicated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), its underlying mechanism remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the role and molecular mechanism of OPN in the induction of 2 key chemokines, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein 1beta (MIP-1beta), in RA.
To determine whether peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from children with recent-onset polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) exhibit biologically or clinically informative gene expression signatures.
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF; CCN2) is overexpressed in systemic sclerosis (SSc) and has been hypothesized to be a key mediator of the pulmonary fibrosis frequently observed in this disease. CTGF is induced by transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) and is a mediator of some profibrotic effects of TGFbeta in vitro. This study was undertaken to investigate the role of CTGF in enhanced expression of type I collagen in bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis, and to delineate the mechanisms of action underlying the effects of CTGF on Col1a2 (collagen gene type I alpha2) in this mouse model and in human pulmonary fibroblasts.
To identify the autoantigen recognized by the autoantibody that is associated with clinically amyopathic dermatomyositis (C-ADM) and rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease (ILD).
It has been suggested that anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To exert their pathologic effects, ACPAs must recruit immune effector mechanisms such as activation of the complement system. Mouse models of RA have shown that, surprisingly, arthritogenic antibodies activate the alternative pathway of complement rather than the expected classical pathway. This study was undertaken to investigate whether human anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies activate the complement system in vitro and, if so, which pathways of complement activation are used.
For patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in remission who are receiving disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), radiographic progression correlates with imaging-detected synovitis as measured by power Doppler activity. In contrast, patients with disease in remission who are receiving the combination of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockade with methotrexate (MTX) (combination treatment) have reduced radiographic damage for the equivalent clinical state. We undertook this study to determine whether the difference in radiographic outcome is a result of more complete suppression of imaging-detected synovitis.
To identify differences in peripheral blood gene expression between patients with different subclasses of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and healthy controls in a multicenter study of patients with recent-onset JIA prior to treatment with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or biologic agents.
To investigate the molecular mechanisms of CCL13/monocyte chemoattractant protein 4 (MCP-4) chemokine expression through proinflammatory cytokines in different primary human fibroblasts and the contribution of CCL13 to monocyte migration.
A homeostatic imbalance between coagulation and fibrinolysis might occur intrathecally in neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (NPSLE). However, there are no published data on levels of fibrinolytic factors in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with NPSLE. The present study was undertaken to assess CSF levels of fibrinolytic molecules, including urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), D-dimer, and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), in SLE patients with clinically verified neuropsychiatric involvement and to compare these levels with those in SLE patients without neuropsychiatric involvement and in healthy subjects.
Most of the Borrelia burgdorferi genotypes have been isolated from erythema migrans (EM) skin lesions in patients with Lyme disease. OspC type K strains, which are 16S-23S ribosomal RNA intergenic spacer type 2 (RST2) strains, are most commonly recovered, but a higher percentage of OspC type A strains (RST1), the next most commonly recovered type, is detectable in blood. The goal of this study was to determine the B burgdorferi genotypes in the joints of patients with Lyme arthritis.
To assess fatigue levels and demographic, socioeconomic, disease, and psychosocial correlates of fatigue in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc).
To investigate factors associated with depression and suicidal ideation among individuals with arthritis or rheumatism.
As populations age and the prevalence of hip osteoarthritis (OA) increases, health care providers must manage increasing demands for services. Evidence regarding the progression of hip OA can assist health care practitioners in determining expected patient prognosis and planning care. This systematic review of prospective cohort studies examines prognostic variables in patients with hip OA.
To assess the efficacy and safety of T-614 versus methotrexate (MTX) in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
To compare the performance of whole-body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) versus conventional MRI in assessing acute inflammatory lesions of the sacroiliac (SI) joints in patients with established and active spondylarthritis (SpA) using the Spondyloarthritis Research Consortium of Canada (SPARCC) MRI index. This study is validating whole-body MRI against the current MRI standard for assessing active inflammatory lesions of the SI joints in patients with SpA.
To determine whether a recently available contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) technique using second-generation microbubbles allows for the detection of active sacroiliitis, and to measure CEUS enhancement depth at the dorsocaudal part of the sacroiliac (SI) joints in healthy volunteers compared with patients with sacroiliitis.
To examine whether pretreatment magnitude of quadriceps activation (QA) helps predict changes in quadriceps strength after exercise therapy in subjects with knee osteoarthritis (OA). We hypothesized that subjects with lower magnitudes of QA (greater failure of muscle activation) would have smaller gains in strength compared with those with higher magnitudes of QA following exercise therapy.
To evaluate whether an early cognitive-behavioral treatment complementary to a rheumatologic care program, for patients with recent-onset temporary work disability caused by musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) is effective.
To develop a comprehensive and efficient assessment tool for rheumatic condition-related work barriers and explore its use by physical and occupational therapists.
To determine whether targeted ultrasonographic (US) imaging of the fifth metatarsophalangeal (MTP) joint, compared with radiographs, could aid in the early diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by identifying erosions sooner in early inflammatory arthritis. Radiographic erosion in RA is a late indication of poor prognosis. The earlier detection of erosion may facilitate the timely initiation of disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy, particularly in patients with undifferentiated synovitis.
To improve prognostic ability in ankylosing spondylitis (AS), we sought to identify demographic, clinical, and immunogenetic characteristics associated with radiographic severity in a large cohort of patients.
To characterize a new serum autoantibody in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc) directed against U11/U12 RNP and to identify the clinical features associated with this autoantibody.
To determine the effectiveness of an intervention Tool Kit of arthritis self-management materials to be sent once through the mail, and to describe the populations reached.
To gain insight into the prediagnostic stages of knee osteoarthritis (OA) and identify the process whereby people recognize and address emergent chronic knee problems.
To assess the association between hyperuricemia and risk of stroke incidence and mortality because hyperuricemia is hypothesized to be a risk factor for stroke and other cardiovascular disease, but, to date, results from observational studies are conflicting.
To propose a novel strategy for more efficiently measuring changes in cartilage thickness in osteoarthritis (OA) using magnetic resonance imaging, and to hypothesize that determining the magnitude of thickness change independent of the anatomic location provides improved discrimination between healthy subjects and OA participants longitudinally.
To determine the diagnostic utility of different spinal inflammatory lesions assessed by whole-body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) or with recent-onset inflammatory back pain (IBP) compared with healthy controls.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of intraarticular infliximab compared with intraarticular methylprednisolone in patients with gonarthritis.
Fit and Strong! is an award winning, evidence-based, multiple-component physical activity/behavior change intervention. It is a group- and facility-based program that meets for 90 minutes 3 times per week for 8 weeks (24 sessions total). We originally tested Fit and Strong! using physical therapists (PTs) as instructors but have transitioned to using nationally certified exercise instructors (CEIs) as part of an effort to translate Fit and Strong! into community-based settings, and have tested the impact of this shift in instruction type on participant outcomes.
To report our original experience in patients in whom bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) therapy has failed for T1 bladder cancer with subsequent progression to T2 disease treated with chemo-radiotherapy, as the management of recurrent high-grade T1 bladder cancer after failed BCG therapy is challenging, and radical cystectomy is the standard treatment because there are no well established second-line bladder-preserving therapies.
To address the role of neoadjuvant concurrent chemo-radiotherapy (CRT) in muscle-invasive bladder cancer, by comparing retrospectively the oncological outcomes between a low-dose CRT (LCRT) plus partial cystectomy (PC) or radical cystectomy (RC) protocol and an immediate RC protocol.
To investigate if sildenafil citrate can inhibit the functional and structural changes of the detrusor in a murine model of bladder outlet obstruction (BOO). Phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitors have recently been used for treating urinary symptoms associated with prostatic obstruction, but it is unclear whether PDE-5 inhibition acts on the prostatic urethra or the bladder.
To compare the tumour characteristics and treatment outcome in men undergoing radical prostatectomy (RP) for prostate cancer diagnosed with or with no lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS).
To describe the design of a new chemosensitivity assay based on the expression of genes involved in the resistance to standard intravesical regimens, to allow individualization of therapy for high-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
To evaluate the short-term surgical complications and results of a tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) system (TVT-Secur, Gynecare, Ethicon, Somerville, NJ, USA) in the treatment of female stress urinary incontinence (SUI).
To determine if biopsy characteristics can be used to identify men with unilateral prostate cancer on radical prostatectomy (RP) pathological specimens, thereby selecting candidates for hemi-ablative focal therapy.
To report on the short-term functional and oncological results, from one institution, of high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) for treating localized prostate cancer.
To evaluate whether rat fetal brain stem cells can be induced to acquire cell fates outside the nervous system, hypothesising that cell-based replacement therapy with stem cells can aid in the regeneration of penile smooth musculature and might help to attenuate organic erectile dysfunction (ED), as the degeneration of penile smooth muscle cells leading to subsequent impairment of function is important in organic ED.
To evaluate patients' perspective on whether they would consider botulinum toxin-A (BTX-A) injections as a long-term treatment option for managing their neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO) secondary to spinal cord injury (SCI).
To evaluate the adhesion and growth of rabbit urethral epithelial cells (UECs) on a biodegradable unbraided mesh urethral stent, and to assess the feasibility and effect of the cell-seeded urethral stent for treating post-traumatic urethral stricture (PTUS) in a rabbit model.
To present the UK experience to date with laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) simple nephrectomy.
To address the shortcomings of urine culture for the diagnosis of urinary tract infection (UTI), we used 1H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy for identifying and quantifying Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumonia and Proteus mirabilis.
To report our experience with ligation of the bulbar urethra for treating refractory stress incontinence in a selected group of young men with neuropathic bladders secondary to myelomeningocele (MM), in whom primary anti-incontinence procedures had failed.
To determine the incidence of necrosis, teratoma, and active cancer in specimens at retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) after chemotherapy in patients who presented with a pure seminoma primary tumour and an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level at diagnosis who underwent surgery.
To examine attitudes of male patients attending urology clinics to the donation of prostate tissue samples for research purposes, to compare attitudes in relation to age, educational attainment, previous hospitalization and experience of cancer, and to evaluate attitudes to the duration of storage of tissue samples.
To review our experience at a children's hospital over a 10-year period with the Palomo, Ivanissevich, subinguinal and laparoscopic techniques for varicocele, assessing the success and complication rates according to specific procedure, and the added effect that the modifications of microsurgery and artery-sparing has had on these rates. A second objective was to assess the rate of testicular compensatory growth after surgery for testicular hypotrophy.
Prescribing errors are an important cause of patient safety incidents, generally considered to be made more frequently by junior doctors, but prevalence and causality are unclear. In order to inform the design of an educational intervention, a systematic review of the literature on prescribing errors made by junior doctors was undertaken.
Although carbon monoxide (CO) can modulate inflammatory processes, the influence of CO on adhesion molecules is less clear. This might be due to the limited amount of CO generated by haem degradation. We therefore tested the ability of a CO releasing molecule (CORM-3), used in supra-physiological concentrations, to modulate the expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 and E-selectin on endothelial cells and the mechanism(s) involved.
The transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is essential for glucose homeostasis. PPARgamma ligands reducing insulin levels in vivo are used as drugs to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus. Genes regulated by PPARgamma have been found in several tissues including insulin-producing pancreatic islet beta-cells. However, the role of PPARgamma at the insulin gene was unknown. Therefore, the effect of PPARgamma and PPARgamma ligands like rosiglitazone on insulin gene transcription was investigated.
Verapamil blocks current through the voltage-gated K(+) channel K(v)1.3 in the open and inactivated state of the channel but not the closed state. The binding site for verapamil was proposed to be close to the selectivity filter and the occupancy of the selectivity filter might therefore influence verapamil affinity.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are attractive targets for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and the metabolic syndrome. P633H (2-[4-(2-Fluoro-benzenesulphonyl)-piperazin-1-yl]-3-{4-[2-(5-methyl-2-phenyl-oxazol-4-yl)-ethoxy]-phenyl}-propionic acid), a novel PPARalpha/gamma dual agonist, was investigated for its very different effects on insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in db/db and KK-A(y) mice.
Drugs targeting brain kappa-opioid receptors produce profound alterations in mood. In the present study we investigated the possible anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist salvinorin A, the main active ingredient of Salvia divinorum, in rats and mice.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether the previously reported anti-arrhythmic effect of endothelin-1 (ET-1) is mediated by degranulation of cardiac mast cells prior to myocardial ischaemia.
Oestrogen confers cardioprotection by down-regulating the beta(1)-adrenoceptor and suppressing the expression and activity of protein kinase A. We hypothesized that oestrogen may also protect the heart by suppressing Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), another signalling messenger activated by the beta(1)-adrenoceptor, that enhances apoptosis.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARP)-1 and PARP-2 play complementary tasks in the maintenance of genomic integrity, but their role in cell death or survival processes is rather different. A recently described series of selective PARP-2 inhibitors (UPF-1035, UPF-1069) were used to study the role of PARP-1 and PARP-2 in post-ischaemic brain damage.
Activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices during oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), a model of cerebral ischaemia, was investigated.
The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) has been linked to the cell growth, apoptosis and cell cycle progression. NF-kappaB blockade induces apoptosis of cancer cells. Therefore, NF-kappaB is suggested as a potential therapeutic target for cancer. Here, we have evaluated the anti-cancer potential of a novel NF-kappaB inhibitor, quinoclamine (2-amino-3-chloro-1,4-naphthoquinone).
alpha5IA (3-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-6-[(1-methyl-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)methyloxy]-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine) is a triazolophthalazine with subnanomolar affinity for alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha3- and alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors. Here we have evaluated the relationship between plasma alpha5IA concentrations and benzodiazepine binding site occupancy in rodents and primates (rhesus monkey).
Many local anaesthetics are non-competitive inhibitors of nicotinic receptors (acetylcholine receptor, AChR). Proadifen induces a high-affinity state of the receptor, but its mechanism of action and that of an analogue, adiphenine, is unknown.
Buprenorphine displays attributes of opioids, but also some features distinct from them. We examined spinal and supraspinal signal transduction of buprenorphine-induced anti-nociception in mice compared with morphine and fentanyl.
In endothelial dysfunction, signalling by nitric oxide (NO) is impaired because of the oxidation and subsequent loss of the soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) haem. The sGC activator 4-[((4-carboxybutyl){2-[(4-phenethylbenzyl)oxy]phenethyl}amino)methyl[benzoic]acid (BAY 58-2667) is a haem-mimetic able to bind with high affinity to sGC when the native haem (the NO binding site) is removed and it also protects sGC from ubiquitin-triggered degradation. Here we investigate whether this protection is a unique feature of BAY 58-2667 or a general characteristic of haem-site ligands such as the haem-independent sGC activator 5-chloro-2-(5-chloro-thiophene-2-sulphonylamino-N-(4-(morpholine-4-sulphonyl)-phenyl)-benzamide sodium salt (HMR 1766), the haem-mimetic Zn-protoporphyrin IX (Zn-PPIX) or the haem-dependent sGC stimulator 5-cyclopropyl-2-[1-(2-fluoro-benzyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridin-3-yl]-pyrimidin-4-ylamine (BAY 41-2272).
Alcohol is a significant risk factor for injury, and is one of the leading causes of death, disability and premature mortality among young Canadians. This paper provides an overview of alcohol-related injury among adolescents and young adults presenting to Canadian emergency departments (EDs).
We assessed the self-reported theoretical and practical preparedness training of Canadian emergency medical services (EMS) providers in chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) events.
Insertion of central venous catheters (CVCs) is an essential competency for emergency physicians. Ultrasound-guided (USG) insertion of CVCs has been shown to be safer than the traditional landmark technique. There is no clear consensus on effective methods for training physicians in USG insertion of CVCs. We developed and evaluated a novel educational training program in the USG technique for insertion of CVCs.
Emergency department targeted ultrasonography (EDTU) offers the possibility of rapid exclusion of ectopic pregnancy in patients with first-trimester pelvic pain or bleeding. We sought to systematically review the evidence describing the diagnostic accuracy and clinical utility of EDTU in the first trimester of pregnancy, and to generate a pooled estimate of the sensitivity and specificity of EDTU for the detection of intrauterine pregnancy (IUP).
To determine the attitudes of patients with psychoses/schizophrenia towards generic substitution of oral atypical antipsychotics in a pharmacy setting.
To evaluate a curriculum for teaching family physicians (FPs) in rural and underserviced areas about children's mental health, and to evaluate a collaborative model of teaching using child psychiatrists and FPs.
The purpose of this study was to identify and investigate the factors derived from the rural integrated community clerkship (RICC) questionnaire that influenced the decision of medical students to pursue a 36-week rural community placement option.
Early diagnosis is critical for improving the outcome of patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC). In this study, we applied a proteomic approach to identify serum biomarkers associated with different stages of renal tumor development.
We investigated the effects of iptakalim, a new ATP-sensitive potassium channel (K(ATP)) opener providing endothelial protection, on the progression of cardiac hypertrophy to failure in a rat model of pressure overloading caused by abdominal aortic banding (AAB). Endothelial dysfunction is central to cardiac hypertrophy and failure induced by pressure overload. It would be useful to clarify whether iptakalim could prevent this.
Growth hormone-releasing peptides (GHRPs) as CD36 selective ligands feature potent anti-atherosclerotic activity that is associated with an upregulation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma)-liver X receptor alpha (LXRalpha)-ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter pathway. However, the mechanism involved in PPARgamma activation in response to CD36 signalling has yet to be determined. Therefore, the present study aims to elucidate the upstream molecular mechanisms through which EP 80317, a selective CD36 ligand, promotes lipid efflux from macrophages through PPARgamma activation.
Nonsense mutations in the SCN5A gene result in truncated, non-functional derivatives of the cardiac Na+ channel and thus cause arrhythmias. Studies of other genes suggest that pathogenic phenotypes of nonsense mutations may be alleviated by enhancing readthrough, which enables ribosomes to ignore premature termination codons and produce full-length proteins. Thus, we studied the functional restoration of nonsense-mutated SCN5A.
The present study was designed to decipher molecular mechanisms underlying nicotine's promoting atrial fibrillation (AF) by inducing atrial structural remodelling.
Myocardial fatty acid (FA) oxidation is regulated acutely by the FA supply and chronically at the transcriptional level owing to FA activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha). However, in vivo administration of PPARalpha ligands has not been shown to increase cardiac FA oxidation. In this study we have examined the cardiac response to in vivo administration of tetradecylthioacetic acid (TTA, 0.5% w/w added to the diet for 8 days), a PPAR agonist with primarily PPARalpha activity.
Homeobox (Hox) proteins are transcriptional regulators in embryonic patterning, cell differentiation, proliferation, and migration in vertebrates and invertebrates. A growing body of evidence suggests that Hox proteins are involved in endothelial cell regulation. We have shown earlier that HoxB5 upregulates vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 and thereby contributes to enhanced endothelial precursor cell differentiation. Here we aim to elucidate the role of HoxB5 in angiogenesis.
Statins are lipid-lowering drugs widely used in the management of vascular diseases. Clinical and experimental evidence suggest that statins improve endothelial function by both cholesterol-lowering-dependent and -independent mechanisms. We have previously shown that endothelial dysfunction induced by risk factors and proinflammatory cytokines is associated with down-regulation of lysyl oxidase (LOX), a key enzyme modulating extracellular matrix maturation and vascular integrity. Our aim was to analyse whether statins could normalize LOX expression impaired by proatherogenic risk factors.
Highly proliferative, CD34+/CD45+ fibroblasts derived from monocytic, blood-borne precursor cells play a critical role in the development of fibrosis in a murine ischaemic/reperfusion cardiomyopathy (I/RC) model. The differentiation of human monocytes into fibroblasts in vitro occurs after transendothelial migration (TEM) induced by monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1). Because Rho-associated kinase-1 (ROCK-1) has been implicated in fibrosis and leukocyte TEM, we investigated its involvement in I/RC.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with insulin resistance (IR), obesity, and cardiovascular complications. Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) is a novel antiangiogenic adipokine highly expressed in obese insulin-resistant subjects. We sought to assess TSP-1 levels in adipose tissue (AT) from PCOS women and matched controls. The effects of metformin treatment on circulating TSP-1 levels in PCOS subjects, the effects of serum from normal and PCOS women on in vitro migration and angiogenesis before and after metformin treatment, and ex vivo regulation of AT TSP-1 by D-glucose were also studied.
The purpose of this study was to analyse the expression of CD74 in human atherosclerotic plaques and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) as well as its potential participation in proinflammatory responses in cultured human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC).
Apoptotic events have recently been found to occur in platelets, which are anuclear. Resveratrol is present in red wine and has various biological activities, including inhibition of platelet aggregation. Although considerable evidence is available as to the induction of tumour cell apoptosis by resveratrol, resveratrol's effects on platelet apoptosis have not yet been investigated. In the present study, we demonstrate that resveratrol also markedly stimulates apoptosis in washed human platelets.
Voltage-gated K+ (Kv) channels of arterial smooth muscle (ASM) modulate arterial tone and are inhibited by vasoconstrictors through protein kinase C (PKC). We aimed to determine whether endothelin-1 (ET-1) and angiotensin II (AngII), which cause similar inhibition of Kv, use the same signalling pathway and PKC isoenzyme to exert their effects on Kv and to compare the involvement of PKC isoenzymes in contractile responses to these agents.
Recent clinical studies revealed that positive results of cell transplantation on cardiac function are limited to the short- and mid-term restoration phase following myocardial infarction (MI), emphasizing the need for long-term follow-up. These transient effects may depend on the transplanted cell-type or its differentiation state. We have identified a population of cardiomyocyte progenitor cells (CMPCs) capable of differentiating efficiently into beating cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells in vitro. We investigated whether CMPCs or pre-differentiated CMPC-derived cardiomyocytes (CMPC-CM) are able to restore the injured myocardium after MI in mice.
Oxidative stress followed by abnormal signalling can play a critical role in the development of long-term, high blood pressure-induced cardiac remodelling in heart failure (HF). Since oxidative stress-induced poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) activation and cell death have been observed in several experimental models, we investigated the possibility that inhibition of nuclear PARP improves cardiac performance and delays transition from hypertensive cardiopathy to HF in a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of HF.
Endothelial cells (ECs) constantly exposed to shear flow increase nitric oxide production via the activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Nitric oxide-mediated S-nitrosylation has recently been identified as an important post-translational modification that may alter signalling and/or protein function. S-nitrosylation of endothelial proteins after shear flow treatment has not been fully explored. In this study, the CyDye switch method was utilized to examine S-nitrosylated proteins in ECs after exposure to shear flow.
The presence and potential function of transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7), a Ca2+-permeable non-selective cation channel of the TRP channel superfamily in human vascular endothelial cells, were examined.
The parasympathetic nervous system is thought to play a key role in atrial fibrillation (AF). Since parasympathetic signalling is primarily mediated by the heterotrimeric G-protein, Galpha(i)betagamma, we hypothesized that targeted inhibition of Galpha(i) interactions in the posterior left atrium (PLA) would modify the substrate for vagal AF.
Real-time perfusion (RTP) adenosine stress echocardiography (ASE) can be used to visually evaluate myocardial ischaemia. The RTP power modulation technique angio-mode (AM), provides images for off-line perfusion quantification using Qontrast software, generating values of peak signal intensity (A), myocardial blood flow velocity (beta) and myocardial blood flow (Axbeta). By comparing rest and stress values, their respective reserve values (A-r, beta-r, Axbeta-r) are generated. We evaluated myocardial ischaemia by RTP-ASE Qontrast quantification, compared to visual perfusion evaluation with 99mTc-tetrofosmin single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
Neovascularization represents a major challenge in tissue engineering applications since implantation of voluminous grafts without sufficient vascularity results in hypoxic cell death of implanted cells. An attractive therapeutic approach to overcome this is based on co-implantation of endothelial cells to create vascular networks. We have investigated the potential of human endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) to form functional blood vessels in vivo in direct comparison to vascular-derived endothelial cells, represented by human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC).
Spontaneous differentiation of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) cultures is a major concern in stem cell research. Physical removal of differentiated areas in a stem cell colony is the current approach used to keep the cultures in a pluripotent state for a prolonged period of time. All hESCs available for research require unidentified soluble factors secreted from feeder layers to maintain the undifferentiated state and pluripotency. Under experimental conditions, stem cells are grown on various matrices, the most commonly used being Matrigel.
Defects of the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) cause a series of rare, mainly neurological disorders. In addition, they have been implicated in more common forms of movement disorders, dementia and the ageing process. In order to try to model neuronal dysfunction associated with mitochondrial disease, we have attempted to establish a series of transmitochondrial mouse embryonic stem cells harbouring pathogenic mtDNA mutations.
In order to understand the impact of oxygen tension on MSC culture and chondrogenic differentiation in vitro, we developed a mathematical model of these processes and applied it in predicting optimal assays.
Melanoma cells take advantage of impaired ability to undergo programmed cell death in response to different external stimuli and chemotherapeutic drugs; this makes prevention of tumour progression very difficult. The aim of this study was to demonstrate whether 3-O-methylfunicone (OMF), a metabolite of Penicillium pinophilum, has the ability to arrest cell population growth and to induce apoptosis in A375P (parental) and A375M (metastasis derivatived) melanoma cell lines.
This study aimed to investigate molecular and cellular changes induced in human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) after treatment with microtubule-interacting agents and to estimate damage to the bone marrow microenvironment caused by chemotherapy.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of raloxifene on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in breast carcinomas of postmenopausal women.
Somatic stem cells can be obtained from a variety of adult human tissues. However, it was not clear whether human parathyroid glands, which secrete parathyroid hormones and are essential in maintaining homeostasis levels of calcium ions in the circulation, contained stem cells. We aimed to investigate the possibility of isolating such parathyroid-derived stem cells (PDSC).
Mesenchymal stem cells have great potential for tissue regeneration, and these cells can be harvested from a variety of tissues; however, up to now it has not been clear whether stem cells could be isolated from cruciate ligaments of the knee joint. The aim of our study was to isolate and characterize stem cells from both anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments (ACL and PCL) of humans.
Glioblastomas are aggressive primary brain cancers that are characterized by extensive infiltration into the brain and are highly resistant to treatment. Through mathematical modelling, we model the process of invasion and predict the relative importance of mechanisms contributing to malignant invasion. Clinically, we predict patterns of tumour recurrence following various modes of therapeutic intervention.
Erythropoietin has been shown to have a protective effect in certain models of ischaemia-reperfusion, and in some cases the protection has been correlated with activation of signalling pathways known to play a role in cell survival and proliferation. We have studied whether erythropoietin would overcome direct toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) treatment to human renal proximal tubular (HK-2) cells.
This study aims to assess the status of nerve fibres in healthy human skin, to quantify effects of UV radiation on nerve endings, and to evaluate neuroprotective effects of new skin care formulations against UV exposure damage.
In recent years, support has increased for the notion that a subpopulation of brain tumour cells in possession of properties typically characteristic of stem cells is responsible for initiating and maintaining the tumour. Unravelling details of the brain tumour stem cell (BTSC) hierarchy, as well as interactions of these cells with various therapies, will be essential in the design of optimal treatment strategies.
To report on the use of Mitomycin-C as adjuvant therapy to excision and cryotherapy in patients with sebaceous gland carcinoma (SGC) in high-risk locations.
To describe the prevalence and risk factors of ocular trauma in an urban Asian population.
This study compared ocular vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (oVEMPs) in children and adults using air conducted sound stimulation to determine when oVEMP characteristic parameters in children reach adult levels. The relationships between oVEMP characteristics and structural factors were also investigated.
Chronic tension-type headache (CTTH) affects 3% of the population. Directly and indirectly it causes high costs and considerable loss of quality of life. The mechanisms of this disorder are poorly understood and the treatment possibilities are therefore limited. The blink reflex (BR) reflects neuronal excitability due to nociceptive input in the brainstem. The aim of this study was to investigate nociceptive processing at the level of the brainstem in an experimental pain model of CTTH symptoms.
To evaluate the usefulness of ultrasound imaging to improve the positioning of the recording needle for nerve conduction studies (NCS) of the sural nerve.
The use of functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is growing, leading to a need for methods to summarise data from multiple studies. However, this is difficult using the current channel-based methods when experiments do not share a common channel (CH) arrangement. Thus, we proposed and implemented a CH-independent analysis method for summarising fNIRS data.
We clinically tested a quantitative EEG method to localize abnormal variations in benzodiazepine-induced fast rhythms to localize focal epileptogenic lesions, assuming altered quality/quantity of GABA receptors in the lesions.
To assess the effects of vertical and horizontal gaze, head rotation, body position, and vision on the ocular vestibular evoked myogenic potential (OVEMP) produced by air-conducted (AC) sound.
To examine the process of the sleep onset quantitatively and explore differences between narcoleptics and controls during the sleep onset period (SOP).
To investigate lifespan age differences in neuronal mechanisms of visual coding in the context of perceptual discrimination.
To examine the correlation between rigidity and interaction of stretch reflex and shortening reaction during passive movements of the wrist and to compare this correlation with that between rigidity and stretch reflex alone.
Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were used to (1) investigate intermodal influences upon somatosensory processing in primary somatosensory cortex (S1), (2) determine the influence of spatiotemporal relationships between bimodal stimuli in S1 and (3) observe behavioral changes associated with intermodal modulation.
To investigate the temporal relationship between cerebral and autonomic activities before and during periodic limb movements in NREM and REM sleep (PLMS).
In ictal scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) the presence of artefacts and the wide ranging patterns of discharges are hurdles to good diagnostic accuracy. Quantitative EEG aids the lateralization and/or localization process of epileptiform activity.
Simple tests to detect peripheral vestibulopathy might be practically useful before conducting elaborate examinations. The purpose of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of foam posturography for peripheral vestibulopathy, with emphasis on visual and somatosensory dependence.
The present study investigated whether self-vocalization enhances auditory neural responsiveness to voice pitch feedback perturbation and how this vocalization-induced neural modulation can be affected by the extent of the feedback deviation.
Auditory temporal processes in quiet are impaired in auditory neuropathy (AN) similar to normal hearing subjects tested in noise. N100 latencies were measured from AN subjects at several tone intensities in quiet and noise for comparison with a group of normal hearing individuals.
This work aims to determine reliability and diagnostic sensitivity of sensory nerve-conduction study and somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) for the assessment of meralgia paraesthetica (MP).
This study investigates the anatomical and physiological causes of the temporal jumps between motor unit fractions observed in scanning-EMG recordings; i.e., temporal gaps in the distribution of the electrical activity of the motor unit within a transverse section of its territory.
The combination of brain stimulation by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and simultaneous electroencephalographic (EEG) recording has the potential to be of great value for understanding human brain functions. Recording EEG during TMS can be technically challenging because TMS induces a very strong electrical field that can saturate recording amplifiers for a long duration. Advances in amplifier technology, however, have led to the development of TMS-compatible EEG equipment that can work in very high, time-varying magnetic fields without saturation. The aim of the present study was to identify stimulus-related artifacts, and to provide experimental data containing the length of the artifact induced by the magnetic field and its variations with respect to the experimental setting.
Temporo-parietal theta activity (TPTA), often detected in hemispheres with internal carotid (ICA) or middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusive lesions, is more clearly separated from occipital alpha activity by magnetoencephalography (MEG) than electroencephalography. The present study investigated whether TPTA is correlated with misery perfusion, a surgically correctable type of hemodynamic impairment.
To assess whether pretreatment theta current density in the rostral anterior cingulate (rACC) and medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC) differentiates responders from non-responders to antidepressant medication or placebo in a double-blinded study.
The contamination of muscle and eye artifacts during an ictal period of the EEG significantly distorts source estimation algorithms. Recent blind source separation (BSS) techniques based on canonical correlation (BSS-CCA) and independent component analysis with spatial constraints (SCICA) have shown much promise in the removal of these artifacts. In this study we want to use BSS-CCA and SCICA as a preprocessing step before the source estimation during the ictal period.
Periodic leg movements during sleep (PLMS) have been shown to be associated with changes in autonomic and hemispheric activities. Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) assesses hemodynamic changes linked to hemispheric/cortical activity. We applied NIRS to test whether cerebral hemodynamic alterations accompany PLMS.
Brain-computer interface (BCI) technology can provide severely disabled people with non-muscular communication. For those most severely disabled, limitations in eye mobility or visual acuity may necessitate auditory BCI systems. The present study investigates the efficacy of the use of six environmental sounds to operate a 6x6 P300 Speller.
Steroids have been a gold-standard drug of immunosuppressive regimens in kidney transplantation. Steroid minimization protocols have been applied to minimize the adverse effects of steroids. We have evaluated the short-term outcomes of our early steroid discontinuation regimen.
This study investigated the influence of manual acupuncture on heart rate variability and the role which anxiety can play in modifying physiological outcomes.
To determine whether pet therapy interventions improve physiological, behavioral and mood outcomes and experiences of hospitalized patients.
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the use of complementary and alternative medicine among patients with chronic diseases at outpatient clinics. Another aim was to identify demographic and socio-economic factors that are associated with CAM use.
To uncover complementary therapists' motivation to work in cancer/supportive and palliative care.
To describe the profile of patients presenting to a private chiropractic clinic specialising in Neuro Emotional Technique (NET) and to identify trends in the presentation of symptoms from these patients.
To review the literature regarding the use of immunostains in Mohs surgery.
To describe a new minimally invasive approach to facial rejuvenation using a novel absorbable suture with segmented stabilizers that allows for a superolateral reversal of the senescent changes of the midface.
To compare patient satisfaction after treatment for NMSC and to determine factors associated with better satisfaction.
To study the association between known diabetes and complications after skin surgery.
To evaluate duplicative surgery rate of success and to analyze the cell populations involved in hair regeneration.
To compare the efficacy of topical application of five commercially available antiaging compounds (retinoic acid, glycolic acid, vitamin C, estrogen, and soy) on the dorsal skin.
To evaluate the efficacy of long-pulse alexandrite laser in the treatment of BN.
To determine differential long-term stimulation of type I and type III collagen after infrared (1,100-1,800 nm) irradiation.
To reduce complications and improve the results of ablative fractional laser resurfacing by combining this treatment of acne scars with nonablative lasers.
To evaluate the efficacy of the Q-switched alexandrite laser (QSAL) in treating oral labial lentigines of PJS.
To compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) laser with efficacy, safety, and tolerability of electrodesiccation in the treatment of DPN in subjects with Fitzpatrick skin phototypes IV to VI.
To evaluate the long-term effects of oral GTPs on the clinical and histologic characteristics of photoaging skin.
Our objective was to develop an effective ultrarapid CK frozen section immunostain to be used during MMS in cases of NMSC with dense or perineural inflammation.
To investigate the utility of ultrasonography (US) for assessing and grading facial lypoatrophy (FLA) in patients with HIV.
To develop predictive formulas using short-term changes in glycaemic parameters [haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG)] with sitagliptin, a highly selective dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, to assess longer term steady-state changes in HbA1c.
The study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, vildagliptin, and metformin in drug-naïve elderly patients with type 2 diabetes. The primary objective was to demonstrate non-inferiority of vildagliptin vs. metformin in glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) reduction.
To investigate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of multiple oral doses of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor linagliptin (BI 1356) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Type 2 diabetes is characterized by hyperglycaemia, delayed gastric emptying and a blunted response of gut hormones during feeding that may modulate satiety. We hypothesized that it is associated with more hunger when treated by medication.
Combination therapies are increasingly common in the clinical management of type 2 diabetes. We investigated to what extent combined treatment with the human glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue liraglutide and the dual PPARalpha/gamma agonist ragaglitazar would improve glycaemic control in overtly diabetic Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats.
This study set out to determine the prevalence of anaemia in a diabetic population and to explore the relationship between anaemia and urinary albumin excretion in diabetes mellitus. Also, to determine the difference between those with overt nephropathy, microalbuminuria and those without evidence of renal disease.
The aim of the present study was to determine the prevalence of abnormal glucose tolerance and the metabolic syndrome in a cohort of previously gestational diabetic (GDM) women 4 years after delivery.
To evaluate the effect of TCF7L2 on genetic susceptibility of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) in East Asian population by using the meta-analysis.
Recommendations for self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) from the DCCT have not been implemented with the same rigour as recommendations for intensifying insulin therapy. We assessed the frequency of and motives for SMBG and compared SMBG behaviour with clinical, behavioural and demographic characteristics.
To determine the threshold of plasma glucose levels calculated from the mean+2SDs for diagnosing gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) in Thai women.
To investigate urinary excretion of platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) during the different stages of diabetic nephropathy (DN) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) as well as its clinical significance.
To evaluate comparability of NGSP-certified method and IFCC-calibrated method.
HSP60 plays a protective role against heat, oxidative injury and ultraviolet. Recently, animal and clinical studies have suggested that HSP60 plays a role in various diseases. However, few epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between HSP60 levels and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Therefore, an epidemiological study was conducted to examine the association of HSP60 with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Hepatic insulin degradation decreases in type 2 diabetes. Insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) plays a key role in insulin degradation and its gene is located in a diabetes-associated chromosomal region. We hypothesised that IDE may be regulated by insulin and/or glucose in a liver cell model. To validate the observed regulation of IDE in vivo, we analysed biopsies of human adipose tissue during different clamp experiments in men.
In obesity, beta cells activate compensatory mechanisms to adapt to the higher insulin demand. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) prevents obesity-induced hyperglycaemia and is a potent target for the treatment of diabetes, but the mechanisms of its secretion and regulation in obesity are unknown. In the present study, we hypothesise the regulation of IL-1Ra secretion by purinergic P2X(7) receptors in islets.
We estimated the incidence of chronic renal failure, the incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and renal mortality rates among New Zealand European and Maori patients with diabetes and estimated the ethnic difference in the risk of developing renal failure.
The aim of this study was to characterise electrical activity, ion channels, exocytosis and somatostatin release in human delta cells/pancreatic islets.
Additional susceptibility loci for type 2 diabetes have been identified by a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWASs) in European populations. To examine further the roles of these new loci, we performed a replication study for the association of these single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) loci with the disease in three independent Japanese populations.
Type 1 diabetes is a proinflammatory state characterised by increased levels of circulating biomarkers of inflammation and monocyte activity. We have shown increased Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TLR4 expression and signalling in monocytes from type 1 diabetic patients. Several endogenous ligands of TLR2 and TLR4 have been identified; however, there is a paucity of data on levels of these endogenous ligands in diabetes. Thus, the aim of this study was to examine circulating levels of exogenous/endogenous ligands of TLR2 and TLR4 in type 1 diabetic patients and to compare these with the levels in matched healthy controls.
Accumulating evidence suggests that diabetes increases the risk of dementia, but few studies have addressed possible mechanisms underlying this relationship. The aim of our study was to investigate the longitudinal association of glucose metabolism, insulin secretion and insulin action with the development of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.
We investigated whether variation in MTNR1B, which was recently identified as a common genetic determinant of fasting glucose levels in healthy, diabetes-free individuals, is associated with measures of beta cell function and whole-body insulin sensitivity.
Macrophage-mediated renal injury plays an important role in the development of diabetic nephropathy. Colony-stimulating factor (CSF)-1 is a cytokine that is produced in diabetic kidneys and promotes macrophage accumulation, activation and survival. CSF-1 acts exclusively through the c-fms receptor, which is only expressed on cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage. Therefore, we used c-fms blockade as a strategy to selectively target macrophage-mediated injury during the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
Growth hormone has been used experimentally in two studies to treat individuals with type 2 diabetes, with both reporting beneficial effects on glucose metabolism. However, concerns over potential diabetogenic actions of growth hormone complicate its anticipated use to treat type 2 diabetes. Thus, an animal model of type 2 diabetes could help evaluate the effects of growth hormone for treating this condition.
Uncoupling protein (UCP) 3 is an inner mitochondrial membrane transporter mainly produced in skeletal muscle in humans. UCP3 plays a role in fatty acid metabolism and energy homeostasis and modulates insulin sensitivity. In humans, UCP3 content is higher in fast-twitch glycolytic muscle than in slow-twitch oxidative muscle and is dysregulated in type 2 diabetes. Here, we studied the molecular mechanisms determining human UCP3 levels in skeletal muscle and their regulation by fasting in transgenic mice.
Stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) is a chemokine produced in stromal tissues in multiple organs. Earlier we reported on levels of SDF-1 and SDF-1 receptor (CXCR4) in the insulin-producing beta cells of the mouse pancreas and determined that the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis is important for beta cell survival through activation of the prosurvival kinase, protein kinase B (AKT). Since AKT is known to modulate the wingless-type MMTV integration site family (WNT) signalling cascade, we examined the effects of SDF-1/CXCR4 on WNT signalling in beta cells and whether this signalling is important for cell survival.
The aim of the study was to determine the annual healthcare expenditures of an individual with diabetes in Tehran, between March 2004 and March 2005.
Cardiovascular and renal diseases share common risk factors. We used structural equation modelling (SEM) to evaluate the independent and combined effects of phenotypes and genotypes implicated in cardiovascular diseases on renal function in type 2 diabetes.
Type 1 diabetes is associated with premature arterial disease. Bone-marrow derived, circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are believed to contribute to endothelial repair. The hypothesis tested was that circulating EPCs are reduced in young people with type 1 diabetes without vascular injury and that this is associated with impaired endothelial function and increased carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT).
Structural and functional imaging of the islets of Langerhans and the insulin-secreting beta cells represents a significant challenge and a long-lasting objective in diabetes research. In vivo microscopy offers a valuable insight into beta cell function but has severe limitations regarding sample labelling, imaging speed and depth, and was primarily performed on isolated islets lacking native innervations and vascularisation. This article introduces extended-focus optical coherence microscopy (xfOCM) to image murine pancreatic islets in their natural environment in situ, i.e. in vivo and in a label-free condition.
Loss of pancreatic beta cell mass and function leads to the development of diabetes mellitus. Currently there is no technical way to non-invasively image islet function and mass. Murine models suggest that islets are highly vascularised organs that make a significant contribution to the total pancreatic blood flow. The current study was undertaken to test with arterial spin labelling (ASL) magnetic resonance imaging if islet mass and/or stimulation of human pancreatic islets by hyperglycaemia can differentially increase whole-pancreas perfusion, thereby distinguishing non-diabetic from type 1 diabetic patients.
The mechanisms allowing normalisation of insulin sensitivity and reversal of type 2 diabetes after bilio-pancreatic diversion (BPD) have not been elucidated. We studied whether the expression of genes relevant to mitochondrial biogenesis/function is induced in response to BPD and whether the response differs between morbidly obese patients with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) and patients with type 2 diabetes.
Increased retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) has been reported in association with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. We aimed to investigate the association of serum RBP4 with impaired glucose regulation and microalbuminuria in Chinese adults aged 40 years or older.
Wingless and iNT-1 (WNT) pathway members are critical for pancreatic development and exocrine tissue formation. Recently, much attention has focused on delineating the roles of beta-catenin in pancreatic organogenesis. However, little is known about the involvement of beta-catenin in the endocrine or exocrine function of the mature pancreas. We report for the first time the impact of beta-catenin deletion in the pancreatic beta cells.
Type 2 diabetes is more prevalent in US American minority populations of African or Native American descent than it is in European Americans. However, the proportion of this epidemiological difference that can be ascribed to genetic or environmental factors is unknown. To determine whether genetic ancestry is correlated with diabetes risk in Latinos, we estimated the proportion of European ancestry in case-control samples from Mexico and Colombia in whom socioeconomic status had been carefully ascertained.
This study was designed to investigate the use and impact of a continuous glucose monitoring system (the FreeStyle Navigator) under home-use conditions in the self-management of type 1 diabetes.
Dietary non-oil-seed pulses (chickpeas, beans, peas, lentils, etc.) are a good source of slowly digestible carbohydrate, fibre and vegetable protein and a valuable means of lowering the glycaemic-index (GI) of the diet. To assess the evidence that dietary pulses may benefit glycaemic control, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled experimental trials investigating the effect of pulses, alone or as part of low-GI or high-fibre diets, on markers of glycaemic control in people with and without diabetes.
It is recommended that patients with diabetes reduce their intake of saturated fat and increase their intake of monounsaturated fat or carbohydrate. However, high-carbohydrate diets may result in higher saturated fatty acids in VLDL-triacylglycerol. This is attributed to de novo lipogenesis, although synthesis of specific fatty acids is rarely measured. The objective of this study was to examine the contribution of de novo fatty acid synthesis to VLDL-triacylglycerol composition. It was hypothesised that levels of total and de novo synthesised fatty acids would increase with increased carbohydrate intake in diabetic participants.
Endothelial disturbance and excess inflammatory response are pathogenic mechanisms in pre-eclampsia (PE). Authors determine the clinical diagnostic role for thrombomodulin (TM), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) as endothelial markers and C-reactive protein (CRP), and interlukin-6 (IL-6) as inflammatory markers when tested independently or in combinations.
The goal of this study was to clarify the relationship between PON1 activity, cystatin C and homocysteine in chronic renal failure. We also determined the levels of oxidatively modified LDL (oxLDL) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) to characterize lipid peroxidation.
Injection drug users (IDU) often experience barriers to conventional health-care services, and consequently might rely on acute and emergency services. This study sought to investigate IDU perspectives regarding the impact of supervised injection facility (SIF) use on access to health-care services.
Public clinics in New South Wales (NSW), Australia play a central role in inducting and stabilising opioid dependent clients onto treatment before transfer to a community pharmacy. Clinical assessment of stability is a vital skill in ensuring that clients are appropriately and effectively transferred. A two-hour clinical training program was delivered to staff at 31 public clinics, that aimed to improve staff confidence in assessing client stability, and skills in negotiating the transfer of clients to community pharmacies.
Alcohol content in drinks has been shown to be variable. This study evaluates claims regarding the effects of glass size and glass shape on the amount of alcohol served in on-premise drinks.
To study rates of 3-month retention in a drug treatment therapeutic community and the characteristics of residents who remain in treatment.
To examine client-reported reasons for missed early appointments at a drug and alcohol treatment service and to compare characteristics of those who missed appointments with those who attended.
This paper describes the sociodemographic characteristics of 196 psychotic patients admitted to acute psychiatric wards in the UK, Denmark, Germany and Italy, with the aim of comparing comorbid with non-comorbid patients.
The decline in cardiovascular mortality in Russia following the Soviet anti-alcohol campaign of 1985-1988 and the subsequent increase when these extreme alcohol controls were repealed suggested that alcohol consumption is responsible for a substantial number of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) deaths in Russia. To examine whether a similar conclusion can be drawn on the basis of a time-series analysis covering a longer time period, namely 1959-1998.
To substantiate public health policies aimed at diminishing alcohol-related harm, the level of alcohol-related deaths needs to be documented on a national level. The aim of this study was to explore the opportunities provided by the 1985-1988 anti-alcohol campaign related data for estimation of alcohol-related mortality in Ukraine.
Driving while impaired by alcohol (DWI) is responsible for substantial mortality and injury. Significant gaps in our understanding of DWI re-offending, or recidivism, reduce our ability to practically assess recidivism probability and to match interventions to individual risk profiles. These shortcomings reflect the baffling heterogeneity in the DWI population and the limited focus of much existing DWI recidivism research to psychosocial, psychological and substance use correlates.
A tremendous growth occurred in the reported drug use and abuse in Romania from 1995 to 1999. Lack of concern by government and little policy attention contributed to the surprising delay of drug policy and drug prevention system development. General public stigmatize drug users and drug consumption is considered a matter of personal fault and responsibility. There is some but not sufficient research and evaluation on drug use, abuse problem.
In light of possible introduction of alcohol warning labels in Australia and New Zealand, this paper discusses the international experience with and evidence of effects of alcohol warning labels.
In an effort to increase the number of people undergoing hepatitis C treatment, a range of initiatives are planned or underway to provide treatment in non-specialist services, such as opioid pharmacotherapy treatment (OPT) clinics.
Alcohol has been implicated in both the popular press and scientific literature as having a protective effect for at least a dozen conditions including coronary heart disease (CHD).
The prevalence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) among heroin dependants in treatment was estimated at 89.9%; however, virtually no information exists on the prevalence or risk behaviour among the larger population of drug users not in treatment. This study assessed the prevalence of HCV and associated risk factors among this group with a view to designing more effective intervention programs.
Experiencing previous non-fatal overdoses have been identified as a predictor of subsequent non-fatal overdoses; however, few studies have investigated the association between previous non-fatal overdose experiences and overdose mortality. We examined overdose mortality among injecting drug users who had previously been attended by an ambulance for a non-fatal heroin overdose.
To analyze whether the GFI or individual TDI parameters of peak myocardial velocities (S', E', and A') allows detecting different degrees of regional myocardial dysfunction in the most frequent forms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).
The purpose of this study is to identify the value of resting myocardial velocity gradient (MVG) in detecting viable myocardium in patients with healed anterior wall myocardial infarction (MI).
To evaluate diastolic function in acromegalic patients through conventional echocardiography (CD) and tissue Doppler imaging (TDI).
To compare RT3DE and TDI LV dyssynchrony assessment.
To assess the value of PSAV in screening for PCa. Specifically, the role of PSAV in lowering the number of unnecessary biopsies and reducing the detection rate of indolent PCa was evaluated.
To assess the correlation of erectile function (EF) and physical activity (PhA) by using standardized, validated instruments in healthy men.
To determine the feasibility of ex situ prostate cancer detection by triple spectroscopy. A positive surgical margin following radical prostatectomy is an adverse factor for recurrence-free survival. Detection of residual cancer cells in vivo would be the most useful, allowing the resection of such tissue during the procedure. Aside from the use of frozen sections, the ability to detect positive surgical margins is limited. Laser-induced autofluorescence, white-light remission, and high-frequency impedance spectroscopy are methods that allow discrimination of tissues of different dignities based on their specific signature. We tested whether the combination of these techniques can differentiate malignant and benign prostate tissue ex vivo.
The current study was undertaken to characterize AngII receptors in the rat bladder in relation to BOO.
This study investigated whether renal cell carcinoma (RCC) tissue expresses metastin or its receptor, and clarified whether metastin can suppress migration and/or invasion and/or proliferation of RCC cells in vitro.
To compare symptoms related to CPPS and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in both sexes.
In this study, we examined the TGF-beta1 effects on Cx43 expression in cultured hBSMCs.
Recent advances in magnetic resonance (MR) technology have allowed for high-resolution ex vivo spectroscopy on small, intact tissue samples. We examined the capability of (1)H magnetic resonance magic angle spinning (MR-MAS) to correctly characterize post-radiofrequency ablation (RFA) renal biopsies from human samples, compared with standard histology and cross-sectional imaging.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of tolterodine extended release (ER), tamsulosin, or tolterodine ER+tamsulosin in men meeting symptom entry criteria for OAB and prostatic enlargement trials, stratified by prostate size.
To study the recoverability of erectile function in post-radical cystectomy patients on subjective and objective bases.
To examine biochemical, local and metastatic patterns of recurrence in patients undergoing SP for radiation-recurrent prostate cancer.
To evaluate the prognostic role of inferior vena cava (IVC) involvement in a large series of pT3b and pT3c RCCs.
We set out to develop a more accurate pretreatment model for predicting RCC-specific mortality after nephrectomy for all stages of RCC.
To assess the prevalence of a TGG in a contemporary, consecutive, single-centre RP series and its association with adverse pathology.
To evaluate how follow-up time, number of physical symptoms, and presence of androgen deprivation affected quality of life among men randomized to radical prostatectomy or watchful waiting.
To provide an improved framework for understanding the relationship of PCa to serum T level that is consistent with current evidence and is based on established biochemical principles of androgen action within the prostate.
To test whether the accuracy of cancer specific survival (CSS) predictions may be improved if node positive patients are stratified according to the number of positive nodes.
To describe why, in whom, and how RTB should be performed for the evaluation of SRTs.
To review previous and recent literature on this subject and to assess the current standards of diagnosis and management of postprostatectomy incontinence.
To determine the optimal use of chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings in patients with advanced urothelial cell carcinoma. Bladder preservation is also discussed.
To elucidate the pathophysiologic mechanisms of post-RP ED, to assess the need for rehabilitation following surgery, and to analyze the basic scientific evidence and clinical applications of PDE5-Is for the prevention and treatment of ED.
To examine the influence of baseline parameters on changes in International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) and maximum urinary flow rate (Q(max)) in men with BPH receiving dutasteride, tamsulosin, or a combination of the two using 2-yr Combination of Avodart and Tamsulosin (CombAT) study data.
The simultaneous combination of vaporisation and resection of prostatic tissue in a retrograde fashion is the main characteristic of this new laser technique. We provide a DVD that shows the main steps of this procedure.
To examine the annual hazard rate (anHR) of biochemical recurrence (BCR) according to risk strata in patients treated with radical prostatectomy (RP) for localised PCa. These rates might be used to devise a risk-adjusted follow-up.
Chronic congestive liver dysfunction in advanced valvular disease remains an important co-morbidity in open heart surgery. The objective of this study was to explore the prognostic value in patients with severe valvular disease associated with congestive liver dysfunction.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cisplatin-based chemotherapy followed by surgery for patients with a malignant nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (NSGCT) of the mediastinum.
The tracheobronchial structures were evaluated by multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT), which provided imaging information for one-lung anesthesia during thoracic surgery.
To describe a standardized observation protocol to determine if nursing home (NH) staff offer choice to residents during 3 morning activities of daily living (ADL) and compare the observational data with deficiency statements cited by state survey staff.
The purpose of this study was to describe good quality care at the end of life (EOL) for hospice-enrolled residents in assisted living facilities (ALFs).
This study investigated the effectiveness of interventions to improve medication adherence (MA) in older adults.
This study evaluates the changes in social networks of older and younger breast cancer patients over a 6-month period following their first diagnosis and how such modifications are associated with changes in the patients' mood state.
Faced with an aging driving population, interest is increasing in the use of restricted licenses or "graduated delicensing" for older drivers to allow them to safely retain a driver's license. The primary purpose of this study was to determine whether restricted licenses are successful at mitigating number of crashes per year and whether they can extend the period of crash-free driving for aging adults.
Almost half of people age 85 and older who die annually in the United States die as nursing home residents, yet because it is not always clear who is close to death, not all residents who might benefit from end-of-life care receive it. The purpose of this study is to develop a framework for organizing social interactions related to end-of-life care and to characterize the social construction of dying in two nursing homes.
Making choices about everyday activities is a normal event for many adults. However, when an adult moves into an assisted living (AL) community, making choices becomes complicated by perceived needs and community practices. This study examines the relationship between choice and need in the context of practices, using medication administration practices as the case in point.
Although prior research suggests that economic, behavioral, and psychosocial factors influence decisions not to purchase long-term care insurance, few studies have examined the interplay among these factors in depth and from the consumer's point of view. This study was intended to further illuminate these considerations, generate hypotheses about non-purchasing decisions, and inform the design of policies that are responsive to concerns and preferences of potential purchasers.
Providing support to an aging parent may pose challenges to adult children but also provide an opportunity to "give back" to loved ones. The current study investigated changes in emotional and instrumental support and quality across a period of 4 years. Additionally, associations between intergenerational support and well-being in adult children over time were investigated.
To examine how cognitive speed of processing training affects driving mobility across a 3-year period among older drivers.
The Gentle Persuasive Approaches (GPA) curriculum was developed as an adjunct to other educational initiatives that were part of Ontario, Canada's Alzheimer Strategy. GPA emphasizes that an individual's unique personal history has a direct application to the interpretation of and response to their behavior. It incorporates strategies into geriatric patient care to assist staff to respond effectively to verbal and physical expressions of need.
This is a pilot study that provides a description of the values older persons report in ethical wills and their reasoning for the values they chose, and compares the values in ethical wills of seniors and students. Nursing home residents rarely get the opportunity or venue to discuss these topics and the ethical will enables them to have conversations about issues they feel are important.
Many targeted interventions have been developed and tested with African Americans (AA); however, AAs are a highly heterogeneous group. One characteristic that varies across AAs is Ethnic Identity (EI). Little research has been conducted on how to incorporate EI into the design of health messages and programs.
Health advocates have focused on the prevalence of advertising for calorie-dense low-nutrient foods as a significant contributor to the obesity epidemic. This research tests the hypothesis that exposure to food advertising during TV viewing may also contribute to obesity by triggering automatic snacking of available food.
The authors investigated whether European American (EA) and African American (AA) women took longer to lose weight, and were less likely to maintain weight loss if they perceived others to be overweight.
On the basis of a life-course risk-chain framework, the authors examined whether (a) residual associations between childhood socioeconomic status (SES) and adult obesity and body mass index (BMI) would be observed in women but not men after adjusting for adult SES, (b) adult Big Five personality traits would be associated with adult body mass in both genders, and (c) personality would explain unique variation in outcomes beyond child and adult SES.
This study examined parent-child attitudes on value of specific types and intensities of physical activity, which may explain gender differences in child activity, and evaluated physical activity as a mechanism to reduce time spent in sedentary behaviors.
This study longitudinally investigated psychological and social risk factors consistent with the Theory of Triadic Influence (TTI) as predictors of adolescent smoking transitions.
The present study was a prospective investigation of baseline influences on initial smoking and transition to established smoking among college students who had not smoked prior to college.
To test whether differences of history and strength in tobacco control policies will influence social norms, which, in turn, will influence quit intentions, by influencing smokers' regret and rationalization.
(1) To replicate previous research finding that abstinence-specific social support during the active phase of quitting predicts short- and long-term smoking cessation treatment outcome. (2) To describe time-related changes in abstinence-specific support, including how support provided during middle and later phases of the quitting process is associated with treatment outcome.
To investigate the psychological processes that underlie the relation between exposure to alcohol use in media and adolescent alcohol use.
The purpose of this study was to investigate smokers' thoughts and worries about their smoking behavior. Researchers have sometimes asked smokers to make such self-assessments but typically using retrospective summary judgments.
Unintentional injury rates in low- and middle-income countries are up to 50 times higher than high-income nations. In South Africa, kerosene (paraffin) is a leading cause of poisoning and burns, particularly in low-income communities where it serves as a primary fuel for light, cooking, and heating. This study tested a community-based intervention to reduce kerosene-related injury risk. The intervention used a train-the-trainers model, whereby expert trainers train local paraprofessionals, who in turn deliver educational materials to community residents. The intervention was theory-driven, pragmatically motivated, and culturally sensitive.
There is considerable evidence that depressive mood is related to lower parasympathetic control of the heart, thus increasing cardiovascular risk. However, little is known about social factors (e.g., social affiliation) that might moderate this relationship.
Meta-analysis was used to synthesize results of studies on emotional consequences of predictive genetic testing for BRCA1/2 mutations conferring increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer.
Characterization of current morbidity and mortality among heart failure (HF) outpatients in Galicia (N.W. Spain), together with their main determinants.
We sought to examine the impact of moderate or severe renal insufficiency (RI) on long-term clinical outcomes after successful percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stent implantation.
The study sought to determine the incremental benefit of MCE over 2DE for evaluation of CAD during supine bicycle stress and to assess the impact of previous MI on diagnostic values of both methods.
To evaluate the effects of a multidisciplinary obesity treatment programme on fecal microbiota composition and immunoglobulin-coating bacteria in overweight and obese adolescents and their relationship to weight loss.
To examine the role of blame as a mediator of the relationships between perceiver age and gender and children's acceptance of an overweight peer.
The objective of this study was to quantify hormones that regulate energy and glucose homeostasis to establish possible mechanisms for the greater efficacy of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) compared with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB) in achieving weight loss and improved insulin sensitivity.
To look for same-sex (gender assortative) association of body mass index (BMI) in healthy trios (mother, father and child) from a contemporary birth cohort, which might imply shared environment rather than shared genes because selective mother-daughter and father-son gene transmission is not a common Mendelian trait.
The hypothalamic control of energy balance is regulated by a complex network of neuropeptide-releasing neurons. Although the effect of these neuropeptides on individual aspects of energy homoeostasis has been studied, the coordinated response of these effects has not been comprehensively investigated. We have simultaneously monitored a number of metabolic parameters following intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of 1 and 3 nmol of neuropeptides with established roles in the regulation of feeding, activity and metabolism. Ad libitum- fed rats received the orexigenic neuropeptides neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related protein (AgRP), melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) or orexin-A. Overnight-food-deprived rats received an ICV injection of the anorectic peptides alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH), corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) or neuromedin U (NMU).
To evaluate circulating sTfR concentration after changing insulin sensitivity in obese individuals.
Emerging evidence suggests that exposures during fetal life affect adult metabolism. We assessed the relationship between recalled maternal pre-pregnancy body mass, gestational weight gain (GWG), and adiposity in the daughter.
To investigate associations between mothers' employment (full, part time and no employment) and nutrition habits (regularity of breakfast, snack, dinner, meal speed and portion size) in a sample of Japanese junior high schoolchildren, 12-13 years of age.
Task-related EEG changes were studied during the performance of a mental arithmetic task, as influenced by low alcohol dosages with the presumption that even "social" drinking may have detrimental effect.
Nonlinear and linear methods of EEG-complexity analysis and autonomic measures were used to characterize processes accompanying performance in a mental arithmetic task challenged by low ("social") alcohol doses. It was expected that alcohol in such doses will dampen changes of task-related EEG-synchronization in the theta band, and those of heart rate and electrodermal activity (EDA).
To characterize the role of advanced practice nurses (APNs), particularly nurse practitioners (NPs), in the practice setting of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), a Federal biomedical research facility.
To identify strategies for managing high-acuity-depressed adults in primary care settings. Patients who do not achieve remission with initial treatment, patients at risk for suicide, and patients with co-occurring substance use disorders are specifically addressed.
To present information about cardiac syndrome X (CSX) including its (a) definition, (b) etiology and pathology, (c) epidemiology, (d) symptomatology, (e) diagnosis, (f) treatment, and (g) prognosis. Clinical recommendations will also be presented.
This report describes the implementation of a novel, patient-driven approach to recruitment for a study of interpersonal communication in a primary care setting involving persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD), their family caregivers, and their primary care providers (PCPs).
To analyze and clarify the conceptual basis of advanced practice nursing to determine the state of the knowledge from the perspective of four overarching principles derived from the philosophy of science: epistemological, pragmatic, linguistic, and logical.
To review the characteristics of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in children, differential diagnoses, screening and assessment tools, interventions, and outcomes. The role of nurse practitioners (NPs) in caring for children with OCD and the need for more research are discussed.
Seventy percent of people over 65 years of age have hypertension, and one third of elders fall each year. These conditions frequently coexist, and each carries a risk for substantial functional decline or mortality. This article reviews the risks of and interventions to reduce falls in the elderly patient with hypertension.
To study exercise-related factors predicting response to CRT.
To examine the effects of chronic amiodarone on the electrophysiology of canine pulmonary vein (PV) sleeve preparations and left ventricular wedge preparation.
The prognostic significance of left and right bundle branch block (LBBB and RRBB) in patients with chronic stable cardiovascular (CV) disease is not well characterized and was evaluated in the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE) study cohort.
Radiofrequency catheter ablation of typical atrial flutter is one of the most frequent indications for catheter ablation in electrophysiology laboratories today. Clinical utility of electroanatomic mapping systems on treatment results and resource utilization compared with conventional ablation has not been systematically investigated in a prospective multicenter study.
Although medical-surgical therapy can reduce mortality in patients with infective endocarditis (IE), the optimal timing of surgery remains controversial. We evaluated the influence of preoperative antimicrobial therapy duration on positivity of valve culture and outcome.
We evaluated the clinical characteristics and risk factors for the paradoxical response (PR) in non-HIV-infected patients with peripheral lymph node tuberculosis (TB).
In patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), Pseudomonas aeruginosa type III (TTSS) secreting isolates have been linked to poor clinical outcomes. Differential expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) induced by type III effector proteins may herald an irreversible lung injury.
To investigate the clinical significance of Staphylococcus aureus bacteriuria (SABU) in patients with S. aureus bacteremia (SAB).
Infectious gastrointestinal disease (IGD) is a significant cause of morbidity in returned international travellers. This study aims to elucidate host and travel characteristics associated with IGD presentation, and describe the broad spectrum of aetiological pathogens responsible by geographic region of acquisition and reason for travel.
To describe the features of invasive Panton-Valentine Leucocidin positive Staphylococcus aureus (PVL-SA) in children at a London teaching hospital, from 2004 to 2008.
The impact of diet and specific food groups on respiratory tract infections has been widely recognized in recent years. This study was conducted to study the effect of tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) oil and clove (Syzgium aromaticum) oil on the susceptibility of experimental mice to respiratory tract infection.
Influenza is an important cause of acute respiratory illness among military recruits, and pneumonia is the most frequent complication. This study was performed to categorize the clinical manifestations of influenza infections among military recruits.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) dual infection accounts for a substantial proportion of liver diseases worldwide. Although the exact prevalence is not known, these viral infections are common among patients with chronic liver disease (CLD). This study was performed to determine the prevalence of HBV and HCV dual infection among patients with CLD in Chennai, India.
In addition to beta-lactamase production, loss of porins confers resistance to extended-spectrum beta-lactams in Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli infection. This study describes the detection of SHV-12 extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) subtype and the loss of OmpK35 porin in 4 strains of K. pneumoniae and E. coli.
Bacteriophages, viruses that cause lysis of bacteria, can serve as an effective tool for the control of infections, especially those caused by multiple drug-resistant organisms. Klebsiella pneumoniae is one of the most predominant pathogens associated with burn wound infections, causing considerable morbidity and mortality. This study investigated the protective effect of K. pneumoniae-specific bacteriophage KØ1 isolated from the environment in a mouse model of burn wound infection induced by K. pneumoniae.
The empirical use of antibiotic therapy is widely accepted for patients with fever and neutropenia during cancer chemotherapy. The use of intravenous monotherapy with broad-spectrum antibiotics in patients at high risk for complications is an appropriate alternative. However, few data are available for pediatric patients. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of cefepime (CFP) monotherapy with ceftriaxone plus amikacin (CFT+AK) in children and adolescents with febrile neutropenia (FN).
A simplified antifungal disk diffusion test using Mueller-Hinton agar containing 2% glucose and methylene blue 5 microg/mL (GM-MH, Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute [CLSI] M44-A) has proved to correlate well with the standard reference test. A new azole, voriconazole, has recently been approved for clinical therapy in Taiwan. This study investigated the reliability of the disk diffusion test with GM-MH agar and compared the results with those of the E-test using GM-MH agar to determine the voriconazole and fluconazole susceptibility of Candida isolates.
Infective endocarditis (IE) is associated with high morbidity and mortality. This study investigated the clinical manifestations and outcomes of IE and compared them between old and young patients.
Nosocomial infection contributes to the morbidity and mortality of patients in hospital. Timely microbiologic surveillance and assessment of antimicrobial resistance is important for dealing with nosocomial infections. This retrospective review was conducted to evaluate the microbiologic spectrum and susceptibility pattern in the pediatric intensive care unit from 2001 to 2006.
Subcutaneously implanted central venous access devices (SICVADs) are a common route of intravascular access for pediatric patients with cancer. This study was performed to evaluate the risk for SICVAD-related infection in a large consecutive series of unselected children with cancer in a single medical center.
Microbial tannase (tannin acyl hydrolase, EC 3.1.1.20), a hydrolysable tannin-degrading enzyme, has gained importance in various industrial processes, and is used extensively in the manufacture of instant tea, beer, wine, and gallic acid. Tannase is an inducible enzyme, and hydrolysable tannin, especially tannic acid, is the sole inducer. This study is of the effect of various amino acids and their analogues on tannase biosynthesis by Bacillus licheniformis KBR6 to ascertain the mode of action of these growth factors on tannase biosynthesis from microbial origin.
To examine the neurophysiological basis for the pronounced differences in hyperactivity and impulsiveness that distinguish the predominantly inattentive type of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD-PI) from the combined type of the disorder (ADHD-C).
We report our experience with radionuclide cisternography (RC) with 111In-diethylenthriamine penta-acetic acid (DTPA) using a computed tomography (CT) mounted hybrid gamma camera in patients with cerebrospinal liquor leakage.
The indications for surgical or endovascular treatment of patients with subclavian stenosis (SS) or occlusion remain controversial. Multiple studies have shown that in most patients, SS results in steal that is evident radiographically, but requires no treatment.
Comparison was performed between unilateral and bilateral power M-mode transcranial Doppler to detect right-to-left circulatory shunt (RLS).
Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (contrast FLAIR) is particularly useful for the detection of meningeal lesions. However, whether contrast FLAIR is useful in multiple sclerosis (MS) remains uncertain. This study evaluated the usefulness of contrast FLAIR in MS.
Most studies on mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have been focused on amnestic MCI (aMCI) that is the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In contrast, only a few studies have involved patients in the preclinical stages of subcortical vascular dementia (subcortical vascular MCI, svMCI). We tried to compare the overall glucose metabolism in patients with svMCI with that of patients with aMCI.
The treatment of a dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) can involve surgery, radiosurgery, or endovascular embolization. New embolization techniques and agents have expanded the role of endovascular treatment.
Three-dimensional anisotropy contrast (3DAC) based on a periodically rotated overlapping parallel lines with enhanced reconstruction (PROPELLER) sequence on a 3.0 T system is a new magnetic resonance imaging technique capable of providing images with significantly high anatomical resolution. The purpose of this study was to confirm whether this technique can characterize the degenerative processes in the brainstem of patients with spinocerebellar degeneration (SCD).
To determine the relative frequency and distribution of various types of intra-oral salivary gland tumors in the Thai population.
The aim of this study was to determine epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression in malignant salivary gland tumours and its possible relationships with clinical and morphological findings, disease course and prognosis.
Maspin, a 42-kDa protein, belongs to the serpin family of protease inhibitors and is known to have tumor-suppressor function. In this study, we investigated the interrelationship between clinicopathologic findings and maspin expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
A survey was conducted to collect data on health care providers who provide pediatric end-of-life care to determine what factors influence provider confidence in managing eleven different end-of-life care issues.
This article provides a description of HM, reviews two recent articles in palliative care that have used the technique, and presents an illustrative case study to further illuminate the potential of the method.
To determine maternal and fetal demographic factors which predict the risk of increasing severity of hypospadias.
To determine the changes in number and morphology of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC)-like cells (ICC-LC) at the ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) of rats after experimental distal ureteral obstruction.
To evaluate urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reagent strips for detection of urinary tract pathology (UTP) associated with urinary schistosomiasis in schoolchildren from Zanzibar.
To review the current literature as it pertains to hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) in the pediatric bone-marrow transplant (BMT) population. By reviewing the pathophysiology of the disease, preventive methods, and therapeutic options, urologists may be better equipped to manage this challenging clinical scenario.
Clitoroplasty is a procedure usually performed in young children, but its long-term psychosexual importance is controversial. We present two adult women from different cultural backgrounds who desired surgery for clitoromegaly.
To assess parental satisfaction with e-mail consultations and fetal outcomes after consultation for offspring with 45,X/46,XY mosaicism.
To compare outcomes of the original Koyanagi technique with the Hayashi modification in severe hypospadias, i.e. hypospadias with a division of the corpus spongiosum located behind the penile midshaft associated with marked hypoplasia of the ventral aspect of the penis and a non-preservable urethral plate. Choice of technique for treating severe hypospadias is discussed.
Porphyromonas gingivalis is a major aetiological agent in the development of periodontitis, the major clinical hallmark of which is bone resorption. The cysteine proteases (gingipains) produced by P. gingivalis have a critical role in the pathogenesis of the disease, and previous studies on whole bacteria have implicated these enzymes in osteoclastogenesis, a process which serves to upregulate bone resorption. The effects of the gingipains from P. gingivalis on osteoclast differentiation were investigated here to determine whether the enzymes directly contribute to osteoclastogenesis and thus to bone resorption.
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4)/myeloid differentiation protein-2 complex ligation by lipopolysaccharide induces production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules on antigen presenting cells. The aim of this study was to determine the role of the TLR-4 in bone loss-resistant C57BL mice and in bone loss-susceptible BALB/c mice after infection with Porphyromonas gingivalis.
Mucosal inflammatory responses are orchestrated largely by pro-inflammatory chemokines. The chemokine granulocyte chemotactic protein 2 (CXCL6) is involved in neutrophil recruitment and migration. Previous studies have shown that granulocyte chemotactic protein 2 is up-regulated during mucosal inflammation (e.g. in inflammatory bowel disease), similarly to the functionally and structurally related chemokine interleukin-8. Nevertheless, unlike interleukin-8, a role of granulocyte chemotactic protein 2 in gingival inflammation has not been yet demonstrated. In this study we aimed to evaluate the expression of the chemokine granulocyte chemotactic protein 2 in clinically healthy vs. diseased gingival tissues and to explore possible correlations with clinical and microbiological markers of periodontitis.
The expression patterns of adhesive proteins and extracellular matrix proteins in regenerating gingival epithelium after gingivectomy are unknown. The aim of this study was to examine the expression of laminin 1, laminin gamma(2) (a specific component of laminin 5), integrin beta(4) and integrin alpha(3) in the regenerating gingival epithelium in order to understand the mechanism of wound healing during reconstitution of the sulcular environment.
An association has been found between periodontal disease and the development of atherosclerosis. We investigated the hypothesis that periodontal disease triggers the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) in blood. Increased levels of these parameters might then indicate early atherosclerosis.
Treponema denticola is a key pathogen associated with periodontitis, a chronic inflammatory disease affecting tooth-supporting tissues. In the present study, we investigated the response of human macrophage-like cells to stimulation by peptidoglycan isolated from T. denticola. We also studied the effect of the peptidoglycan preparation on the phosphorylation state of kinases.
Recent studies have pointed to potentially periodontal risk indicators, however no information is available on the impact of changes in thyroid hormone levels on the progression of periodontitis and on the quality of alveolar bone. Thus, the aim of the present study was to evaluate histologically, in rats, the influence of thyroid hormones on the rate of periodontal bone loss resulting from ligature placement and on the quality of tooth-supporting alveolar bone.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a critical role in the activation of T cells as well as in shaping immune responses. We have reported previously that Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharides (Pg LPS) induced a CD14(+)CD16(+) DC subset with a weak immuno-stimulatory activity. In contrast, Escherichia coli LPS (Ec LPS) induced fully matured DCs with strong immunostimulatory activities. Since Pg LPS as well as Pg fimbriae have been indicated to work as Toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 ligands, we speculate that the TLR usage of bacterial antigens may be critical for DC maturation.
Inflammatory immune reactions that occur in response to periodontopathogens are thought to protect the host against infection, but may trigger periodontal destruction. However, the molecular and genetic mechanisms underlying host susceptibility to periodontal infection and to periodontitis development have still not been established in detail.
Little is known regarding the factors that affect the microbial composition of supragingival biofilms. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that tooth location affects the microbial composition of supragingival plaque beyond the effect due to plaque mass as reflected by total DNA probe count.
Little is known about the factors that affect the microbial composition of supragingival biofilms. This study was designed to examine the relationship between total DNA probe counts of supragingival biofilm samples, clinical parameters and supragingival biofilm composition.
Although periodontal ligament-derived cells are expected to be a useful source of cells for periodontal tissue engineering, the characteristic changes of primary cultured cells have not been well studied. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the characteristics of periodontal ligament-derived cells and their changes during passage.
Elevated nitric oxide (NO) has been associated with destructive periodontal disease. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that exogenous NO may inhibit a protective immune response to Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in a murine model.
Cyclosporine A treatment is important in the therapy of a number of medical conditions; however, alveolar bone loss is an important negative side-effect of this drug. As such, we evaluated whether concomitant administration of simvastatin would minimize cyclosporine A-associated alveolar bone loss in rats subjected, or not, to experimental periodontal disease.
Cystatin C is a 13 kDa non-glycosylated, basic protein belonging to the cystatin family. It is consistently and dramatically upregulated in a variety of fibrotic diseases. However, little is known about the correlation between cystatin C and cyclosporine A-induced gingival overgrowth. The aim of this study was to compare cystatin C expression in normal, healthy gingival tissues and cyclosporine A-induced gingival overgrowth specimens and further explore the potential mechanism that may result in cystatin C expression.
The 4-META/MMA-TBB [4-(2-methacryloxyethyl)trimellitic anhydride/methyl methacrylate-tributylborane] resin is widely used as a dental adhesive. It has also been applied in the dressing of gingival wound surfaces following periodontal surgery. However, its effect on the regeneration and/or cell attachment of the oral epithelium remains to be clarified. To evaluate the effect of the resin applied as a wound dressing, we investigated expression of laminin 5, integrin beta(4) and cytokeratin 14 in regenerating oral epithelium treated with this resin following gingivectomy from the viewpoint of cell attachment and differentiation.
Periodontitis is a risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis. Recent studies indicate that oxidative mechanisms, including lipid peroxidation, are involved not only in periodontitis but also in atherosclerosis. Lipid peroxidation may play an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, particularly during its earliest stages. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between lipid peroxidation induced by periodontitis and the initiation of atherosclerosis.
Human gingival epithelial cells (HGECs) are continually exposed to oral bacteria and to other harmful agents. Their responses to stimuli are critical in maintaining periodontal homeostasis. The aim of this study was to investigate the modulating effect of cigarette smoke extract (CSE) on the innate immune responses of HGECs.
Local persistent infection by Porphyromonas gingivalis leads to inflammatory systemic diseases, such as atherosclerosis. We have reported previously that avirulent P. gingivalis fimbriae-dependent invasion into endothelial cells might be involved in progression of atherosclerosis. Although interleukin-6 (IL-6) regulates progression of atherosclerosis, little is known about the relationship of P. gingivalis fimbriae-dependent invasion to IL-6 regulation in endothelial cells.
This study evaluated the effect of different microwave polymerization cycles on the color changes of a microwave-processed denture base resin after accelerated aging and immersion in beverages.
The concept of the minimal important difference (MID) of an oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) questionnaire has been proposed to refer to the smallest OHRQoL score difference considered to be clinically important in oral health. This study determined the MID for the 49-item Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP) in prosthodontic patients. This could serve as a patient-based approach to define clinical significance for prosthodontic interventions.
The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of cervical wear lesions in three groups of patients: bruxists, combined tooth wear, and controls. The hypothesis was that those subjects presenting with bruxism were more likely to develop cervical wear lesions.
Eighty percent of all removable partial denture (RPD) frameworks are fabricated from cobalt-chromium (Co-Cr) alloys. The advantages of this material include low density and high modulus of elasticity, hardness, and strength. Hardness is of particular concern when related to excessive wear of natural teeth or restorative materials. The purpose of this study was to compare the differences in localized wear among enamel, composite, gold, and porcelain by a Co-Cr alloy RPD.
The aim of this in vitro study was to evaluate the bacterial leakage along the implant-abutment interface by the conventional bacterial culture and DNA Checkerboard hybridization method.
To establish a 3D finite element model of a mandible with dental implants for immediate loading and to analyze stress distribution in bone around implants of different diameters.
The influence of fatigue and the fluoride ion corrosion process on Streptococcus mutans adherence to commercially pure Titanium (Cp Ti) implant/component set surfaces were studied.
To compare the flexural strength of two glass-infiltrated high-strength ceramics and two veneering glass-ceramics.
This study evaluated the effects of adhesive cements on marginal adaptation and fracture resistance of ceramic molar crowns.
This laboratory study aimed at investigating the effect of setting expansion (SE), which could enlarge a wax pattern by concurrent exothermic reaction.
The aim of this in vitro study was to investigate the retention characteristics of attachments fabricated by machine milling or by custom casting. In addition, the retention of reduced dimension attachments was also evaluated.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of three denture hygiene methods against different microbial biofilms formed on acrylic resin specimens.
This study evaluated the curing efficiency of light-emitting diode (LED) and halogen [quartz tungsten halogens (QTH)] lights through ceramic by determining the surface microhardness of a highly filled resin cement.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the thermocycling effects and shear bond strength of acrylic resin teeth to denture base resins.
Patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) frequently have tumor thrombus of the renal vein or inferior vena cava (IVC). During radical nephrectomy, the tumor thrombus may become dislocated due to manipulation of the IVC during tumor isolation, which may result in pulmonary embolism. Placement of vena cava filters at the proximal end of the tumor thrombus have successfully prevented pulmonary embolism. We herein report the use of the Tempofilter II, a temporary filter for the prevention of pulmonary embolism.
Accumulating epidemiological and molecular evidence suggests that inflammation is an important component in the etiology of PCa. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) plays an important role in the pro- and anti-inflammatory response to infection. This study is aimed at investigating the potential association between MIF-173 G&gt;C polymorphism, Gleason score, clinical stage, and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) value with respect to PCa incidence among the Han nationality in Southern China.
Proper patient selection for multi-organ resection in T4 gastric carcinoma remains controversial. Our aim was to investigate which patients might benefit from multi-organ resection.
This study investigated the prognostic impact of lymphatic invasion on the outcome of patients with node-negative gastric cancer.
To determine mechanisms of radioresistance in rectal cancer cells and to assess the role of the nitric oxide donor DETANONOate as a radiosensitizing agent.
We performed a quality of life assessment for patients treated with perineal urethrostomy for anterior urethral stricture disease.
We studied the prevalence of prostatitis-like symptoms and identified their associated risk factors in a population based Chinese sample.
Although asymptomatic prostatitis is the most common noncancer diagnosis as demonstrated histologically by biopsies, screening and identification before biopsy remain unclear. In this study we prospectively evaluate the efficacy of examination of post-prostatic massage urine for prediction of asymptomatic prostatitis in biopsies.
Controversy exists as to the influence of age at diagnosis on prognosis in patients with renal cell carcinoma. We investigated the relationship between age at diagnosis and disease recurrence after surgery in patients with small renal cell carcinoma.
We studied the long-term prognosis, and evaluated the predictors of disease specific and recurrence-free survival in a large cohort of patients who had undergone radical nephroureterectomy for primary transitional cell carcinoma of the ureter.
Patients with bone metastases have high rates of RANKL driven bone resorption and an increased risk of skeletal morbidity. Osteoclast mediated bone resorption can be assessed by measuring urine N-telopeptide and can be inhibited by denosumab, a fully human antibody against RANKL.
We evaluated clinicopathological features and outcomes in patients with penile squamous cell carcinoma.
Due to the public health impact of prostate cancer including the burden of screening and treatment, there is significant public interest in the potential prevention of this disease. We review the most recent results of large scale randomized clinical trials.
Chronic kidney disease is more common than previously appreciated and it is now established as a major independent contributor to mortality. Serum creatinine is known to be an inaccurate reflection of the presence or development of chronic kidney disease. Since urologists frequently treat patients with coexistent chronic kidney disease, we reviewed the merits and limitations of the current methods to estimate renal function, and recent data indicating the importance of optimizing renal function during treatment.
We review the epidemiology, clinical presentation, management and outcome of prostatic abscess secondary to Burkholderia pseudomallei infection in the Northern Territory, Australia. We highlight the frequency of prostatic abscess occurrence in melioidosis, and formulate recommendations for its detection and management.
We hypothesized that in patients with T2N0 stage disease at transurethral bladder tumor resection a lower residual cancer stage (P1N0 or less) at radical cystectomy may correlate with improved outcomes relative to those with residual P2N0 disease.
We compared 3 predictive models for survival after radical cystectomy, risk group stratification, nomogram and artificial neural networks, in terms of their accuracy, performance and level of complexity.
Preoperative prostate specific antigen is widely used to predict unfavorable pathological features and biochemical relapse after radical prostatectomy. Recent reports that hemodilution may be responsible for lower prostate specific antigen in obese men led to concerns that prostate specific antigen may be less effective for prognosticating in men with increased body mass index. We determined whether the clinical usefulness of prostate specific antigen is negatively impacted by obesity by examining its operating characteristics and predictive accuracy as a function of body mass index.
There is debate in the literature on the role of high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia as a risk factor for subsequent prostatic adenocarcinoma detection on prostatic needle biopsy. We determined whether high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia on initial prostatic needle biopsy is an independent risk factor for prostatic adenocarcinoma and whether differences exist between prostatic adenocarcinoma in patients with previous high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia and those with a benign diagnosis.
We compared the treatment outcomes of salvage radical prostatectomy and salvage cryotherapy for patients with locally recurrent prostate cancer after initial radiation therapy.
Prostate biopsy is an invasive procedure that may be painful and require some form of anesthesia. We compared the pain control results of periprostatic nerve block alone vs periprostatic nerve block with intraprostatic anesthesia as local anesthesia for prostate biopsy.
We determined the feasibility of conducting a randomized clinical trial designed to compare 2 methods of manual therapy (myofascial physical therapy and global therapeutic massage) in patients with urological chronic pelvic pain syndromes.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia affects 60% of men at the age of 60 years. Transurethral resection of the prostate is the gold standard of therapy. We assessed the 30-day mortality rate after transurethral resection of the prostate for benign prostatic hyperplasia, identified risk factors related to 30-day mortality and developed a model that discriminates among individual 30-day mortality risk levels.
We investigated the value of measuring the vibratory perception threshold with a biothesiometer to clinically evaluate women with stress urinary incontinence.
We evaluated the accuracy of natural fill telemetric pressure flow study performed in a private room, and assessed patient discomfort and experience after the procedure compared to those of standard pressure flow study.
We reviewed our experience with the TVT-Secur tension-free tape for stress urinary incontinence in females. We evaluated operative time, complications, the continence rate and patient satisfaction at followup. Ethics committee approval was not required.
We determined the rate of duplicate research presentations at recent American Urological Association and European Urological Association annual meetings.
There is a paucity of information on the association of preoperative parameters with surgical outcomes and cost. We identified preoperative predictors of direct cost and examined the association of these factors with the perioperative outcomes of percutaneous nephrostolithotomy.
We compared the impact of mixed, stress and urge urinary incontinence on quality of life in middle-aged or older women.
We evaluated associations between demographic and clinical characteristics, quality of life outcome measures and erectile aids in men treated for localized prostate cancer.
Studies to improve patient access to care have generally involved office based primary care practices or highly managed systems. Surgical practices differ in their referral nature, the common need for imaging at the first appointment and the need to schedule subsequent surgical procedures. We determined whether new patient access to care can be improved in a surgical practice.
Basic urology training in medical school is considered important for many medical and surgical disciplines. We developed a 2-day intensive genitourinary skills training curriculum for medical students beginning their clinical clerkship training years and evaluated the initial experience with this program.
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is the preferred treatment for upper urinary tract renal calculi. However, this treatment is associated with a high rate of recurrent renal calculi. Shock wave therapy can result in renal epithelial cell injury, which in turn is a most important factor in calculus formation. We investigated the influence of kidney damage secondary to shock waves on Ca oxalate crystal retention in the kidney.
We developed and characterized an orthotopic invasive bladder tumor model.
We evaluated whether high voiding pressures in patients with posterior urethral valves are associated with reduced kidney function.
We studied the effect of suturing technique and the impact of urethral plate characteristics on the complication rate following tubularized incised plate urethroplasty.
Botulinum toxin A (Allergan, Irvine, California) is a high molecular weight neurotoxin used to treat hypersensitive bladder by direct injection to pass the urothelial barrier. We investigated the feasibility of intravesical botulinum toxin A delivery using liposomes (Lipella Pharmaceuticals, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania), which are phospholipid bilayered vesicles, and evaluated the urodynamic and immunohistochemical effect on acetic acid induced bladder hyperactivity in rats.
We investigated the pharmacological effect of TRPV1 antagonists in anesthetized rodent models of bladder function.
Urge incontinence and voiding postponement are common subtypes of daytime wetting in children. We analyzed health related quality of life for children with urge incontinence and voiding postponement, and healthy controls at 2 centers.
Treatment of vesicoureteral reflux with observation or surgery is based on a number of clinical variables. We developed a prognostic calculator to predict spontaneous resolution using a computational model. External validation of the computational model is crucial for wide application in clinical practice.
There is a need in urological practice to identify new bladder cancer molecular markers to further develop noninvasive diagnostic tests. We analyzed bladder cancer gene expression profiles to determine the relevant differentially expressed genes and whether this differential expression is maintained in urine samples.
DNMT1 maintains genomic DNA methylation at 5'-CpG-3' residues in somatic cells. Recent findings revealed that DNMT1 depletion causes distinct phenotypic changes in colon and gastric cancer cell lines, suggesting that the extent to which DNMT1 influences the expression of its target genes is cell-type specific. We determined the impact of DNMT1 depletion in prostate cancer derived cells on their gene expression profiles and cellular phenotype.
We assessed CA9 single nucleotide polymorphisms and mutations, and their association with CAIX protein expression, overall survival and response to interleukin-2 in white patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma. MATERIALS METHODS: Genomic DNA was extracted from frozen tumor samples of 54 metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinomas. The CA9 gene exons and flanking regions were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and sequenced. The monoclonal antibody M75 was used to evaluate CAIX protein expression in the primary tumor by immunohistochemistry.
Renal medullary carcinoma is an aggressive renal neoplasm without currently available effective therapy to our knowledge. Topoisomerase II alpha is a gyrase involved in cell proliferation, and DNA maintenance and repair. Topoisomerase II alpha is a target of inhibiting agents such as anthracyclines. Triggered by a recent response to topoisomerase II alpha inhibitors in a patient with renal medullary carcinoma, we evaluated topoisomerase II alpha expression in relation to the proliferation index and topoisomerase II alpha gene copy number status in a larger series of patients with renal medullary carcinoma.
A single nucleotide polymorphism (-938C/A, rs2279115) was found in the bcl2 gene, whose -938A allele is significantly associated with increased Bcl2 expression compared with that of the C allele. Bcl2 up-regulation was reported to be associated with longer survival in patients with renal cancer. However, to our knowledge there is currently no information on the role of the bcl2-938C/A single nucleotide polymorphism in renal cell carcinoma cases. Therefore, we investigated the polymorphism at the bcl2 -938C/A site and its effects on clinical characteristics in patients with renal cell carcinoma.
Although the importance of myocardin in smooth muscle development is well established, many tissue specific intricacies of smooth muscle differentiation remain to be determined. We characterized myocardin expression in the developing and adult bladder to identify potential tissue specific differences that may have a role in detrusor smooth muscle development.
We determined the relationship between clinical variables and testicular histopathological changes associated with decreased fertility potential in children with cryptorchidism.
Penile microarterial bypass surgery may be the only treatment capable of restoring normal erectile function without the necessity of chronic use of vasoactive medications or placement of a penile prosthesis. Lack of standardization in patient selection, hemodynamic evaluation, surgical technique and limited long-term outcome data using validated instruments have resulted in this surgery being considered experimental. In this study we report long-term outcome data using validated questionnaires in young men (younger than 55 years) free of vascular risk factors who underwent microvascular arterial bypass surgery.
In this study we investigated the relationship between lower urinary tract symptoms as defined by the American Urological Association symptom index and the metabolic syndrome, and determined the relationship between individual symptoms comprising the American Urological Association symptom index and the metabolic syndrome.
The objective of the present study was to assess the frequency of self-reported psoriasis in a hip osteoarthritis (OA) cohort, and a secondary objective was to assess the course of hip OA with psoriasis.
To compare the frequency of different autoantibodies in a group of patients with Jaccoud's arthropathy (JA) secondary to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with those without JA.
To determine the prevalence of diagnosed osteoporosis, the extent of treatment use and the incidence of fracture in a representative sample of the French general population.
The objective of this study was to determine the time to relapse after tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) antagonist discontinuation in patients with remission of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Uveitis is the most severe complication of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). The diagnosis may be delayed, as visual symptoms are usually absent, which provides time for insidious complications. The course is chronic and long-term treatment is therefore required.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease affecting axial skeleton, occurring in young and active patients and often condition their professional prospects.
To describe the social and occupational characteristics of patients affected by AS, to estimate the impact of the disease on their professional activity and to determine factors exposing to elevated risk of premature withdrawal from the labor force.
About 1 in 10 patients with shoulder calcifications complains of chronic pain. Removal techniques have been developed. We carried out the first randomized study to validate bursoscopy (BS) and (needling fragmentation irrigation) (NFI) versus a control group (CT).
Naturally-derived farnesol has been reported for its chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic efficacy in various cancers. However, the mechanism of action of farnesol is still to be elucidated. The present study demonstrates the chemopreventive potential of farnesol on 9,10-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-initiated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-promoted skin tumorigenesis in Swiss albino mice.
Acrolein is a highly toxic unsaturated aldehyde and is also an endogenous byproduct produced from lipid peroxidation. It can be formed from the breakdown of certain pollutants in outdoor air or from burning tobacco or gasoline. Inhalation and dermal exposure to acrolein are extremely toxic to human tissue. Although it is known that acrolein is toxic to lung tissue, no studies have attempted to address the changes induced by acrolein on a global scale.
Several activated coagulation factors have been reported to enhance fibrinolysis by inactivating plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1), a serine protease inhibitor. We analyzed the interaction between PAI-1 and the three serine proteases generated during contact activation of plasma, activated factor XII (FXIIa), FXIa, and kallikrein, and evaluated their effects on fibrinolysis in-vitro.
Glutamine (Gln) participates in the so-called "brain glutamine-glutamate cycle" and therefore it is likely to influence brain excitability. Here we investigated, in weaned well-nourished and early-malnourished rats, the effects of previous Gln oral supplementation, during the brain development period, on cortical spreading depression (CSD), an excitability-related brain phenomenon.
Our previous work revealed that mice lacking the p50 subunit of transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) (p50 KO mice) and genetically intact F2 mice have similar locomotion under basal conditions, yet p50 KO mice show greater locomotor activation after caffeine ingestion. In this report, we test whether KO mice display altered caffeine pharmacokinetics or increased caffeine-induced DA turnover relative to F2 mice, and evaluate the impact of intraperitoneal administration of specific adenosine and DA receptor antagonists on locomotor activity.
This study investigated the role of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, on motor activity. Subsequently, the effects of a low, stimulatory dose of WIN 55,212-2 and cocaine, as a positive control, were evaluated using a conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure. Upon completion of CPP, in rats that had been treated with WIN 55,212-2, dopaminergic status and spontaneous and d-amphetamine-induced motor activity were assessed.
The aim of study is to investigate the effect of nifedipine on viral myocarditis in an animal model.
It has been well documented that ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) matter is a crucial component of the descending pain modulatory system in the chronic pain condition. The aim of the present study was to identify the role of the vlPAG Nociceptin/Orphanin FQ/NOP receptor system in allodynia, a nociceptive behavioral response associated with chronic pain.
Diallyldisulfide (DADS), an active principle of garlic (Allium sativum) is known for its antihyperlipidemic properties. The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of novel synthesized DADS analogs, on the lipid profile of hypercholesterolemic rats and to investigate the molecular correlates of their activity at the cellular level.
It was reported that administration of angiogenic growth factors can augment collateral growth in ischemic tissues. It is assumed that angiogenic effects of cell transplantation may be mainly mediated by secretion of angiogenic cytokines. We tested feasibility of clinical use of ONO-1301, a synthetic small molecule that stimulates secretion of growth factors from various cell types, to treat patients with chronic myocardial ischemia.
Calcium (Ca(2+)) is known to augment monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A) activity in cell cultures as well as in brain extracts from several species. This association between Ca(2+) and MAO-A could contribute to their respective roles in cytotoxicity. However, the effect of Ca(2+) on MAO-A function in human brain has as yet to be examined as does the contribution of specific signalling cascades.
To screen cytochrome P4501B1 (CYP1B1) for causative mutations in Omani patients with a clinical diagnosis of primary congenital glaucoma (PCG) METHODS: Nine PCG families were recruited for the study. All patients underwent detailed clinical examinations to confirm the diagnosis of PCG. The families of index patients were also examined. Genealogical information was obtained by pedigree analysis. The primary candidate gene, CYP1B1, was amplified from genomic DNA, sequenced, and analyzed in patients to identify the disease-causing mutations.
Elevated levels of dietary histidine have previously been shown to prevent or mitigate cataract formation in farmed Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L). The aim of this study was to shed light on the mechanisms by which histidine acts. Applying microarray analysis to the lens transcriptome, we screened for differentially expressed genes in search for a model explaining cataract development in Atlantic salmon and possible markers for early cataract diagnosis.
To identify the genetic defects associated with autosomal dominant congenital nuclear cataract in a Chinese family.
Comitant strabismus is a common pediatric ophthalmic disorder with both genetic and non-genetic factors contributing to its etiology. The aim of the current study is to investigate the phenomenon of a parent-of-origin effect, genomic imprinting, as a possible mode of inheritance in comitant strabismus.
Penetrating keratoplasty has been the mainstay for the treatment of blindness and is the most common form of tissue transplantation worldwide. Due to significant rates of rejection, treatment of immunological transplant reactions is of wide interest. Recently in a mouse model, the overexpression of indoeleamine 2,3 dioxigenase (IDO) was led to an extension in corneal allograft survival. L-kynurenine is a tryptophan metabolite, which may render activated T-cells apoptotic and therefore might modulate an allogenous transplant reaction. The function of L-kynurenine in the human cornea remains unclear. We analyzed the expression levels of IDO in human corneal endothelial cells (HCECs) and downstream tryptophan/kynurenine mechanisms in cell culture.
We aimed to compare the CAE prevalence and adverse events rate at 10 years interval in one centre using different devices, dressing procedures.
To assess incidence of chronic kidney disease in general population and to describe baseline characteristics of incident patients.
Improvement in mobility function has been the primary goal in the rehabilitation of children with cerebral palsy. Few studies have examined the effectiveness of task-oriented strength training for children with cerebral palsy. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of task-oriented strength training on mobility function in children with cerebral palsy.
Most cardiovascular abnormalities are associated not only with increased risk of certain ischemic stroke subtypes but also with markedly greater disability in stroke patients. We aimed to investigate the associations between age, comorbidity, cardiovascular problems, site and size of ischemic lesions and functional outcome in inpatient first-ever ischemic stroke patients.
To assess the validity and reliability of a Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) for the measurement of spasticity in multiple sclerosis.
The aim of our study is to determine the effect of age, BMI (Body Mass Index: kg/m(2)), gender, level of lumbar disc operation and standardized physiotherapy of the patients during hospitalization on the Physiotherapy Functional Mobility Profile (PFMP).
The present study investigated whether treatment of attention would facilitate conversational discourse for individuals with CHI. Two treatment protocols were investigated, the first social skills-based, and the second attention-based. It was hypothesized that attention training would improve not only attentional skills but also conversation, however social skills training, would only facilitate conversational skills.
To analyse the functional outcomes of adults following acquired brain injury attending an intensive outpatient neuro-rehabilitation programme relative to a comprehensive TBI day programme service in the United States.
The results of nerve repair in adults are often poor. The study aim was to investigate the effect of repeated sessions of cutaneous forearm anaesthesia of the injured limb, in combination with sensory re-education on the recovery of the tactile discrimination and perception of touch/pressure in the injured hand after median or ulnar nerve repair.
To reassess the evidence for management issues related to the care of women with epilepsy (WWE) during pregnancy, including preconceptional folic acid use, prenatal vitamin K use, risk of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn, clinical implications of placental and breast milk transfer of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), risks of breastfeeding, and change in AED levels during pregnancy.
To reassess the evidence for management issues related to the care of women with epilepsy (WWE) during pregnancy.
To reassess the evidence for management issues related to the care of women with epilepsy (WWE) during pregnancy, including the risk of pregnancy complications or other medical problems during pregnancy in WWE compared to other women, change in seizure frequency, the risk of status epilepticus, and the rate of remaining seizure-free during pregnancy.
To determine whether white matter hyperintensity (WMH) progression rate is a better predictor of cognitive impairment risk than baseline WMH volume in healthy elderly individuals.
To develop and implement a group self-management education programme for people with type 2 diabetes at the community level in primary care. This pilot-study intended to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and long-term effects (12-18 months) of this programme on emotional distress, HbA1c, BMI and actual behaviour.
This 18-month study assessed the improvement in glycaemic control and proportion of patients reaching glycated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) targets with biphasic insulin aspart 30/70 (BIAsp 30) in clinical practice.
Recent trials have provided differing estimates of the benefits of self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) for non-insulin treated patients with type 2 diabetes. Designing and conducting randomised trials to demonstrate the efficacy of complex interventions is challenging. Variations in the components of the intervention delivered, target population selected, and reporting methods used have limited the conclusions drawn in recent systematic reviews. We will systematically examine these factors within the trials of SMBG to enable further investigation of the data through an individual patient data analysis (IPD).
Primary care management of diabetes was examined using the Caribbean Health Research Council (CHRC) guidelines.
To examine perceived need for, and provision of, information prior to participation in a diabetes screening programme in English general practices.
To compare the feasibility experienced by patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in a self-management educational program to the hindrance assessed by the educator of the program.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of a simple educational program on the knowledge and practice of people with type 2 diabetes in relation to the foot at risk in Tehran, Iran.
The National Diabetic Retinopathy Screening Committee has recommended 19 standards for quality assurance of screening programmes in the United Kingdom. Five of the standards apply to the care provided by ophthalmology departments. This study assesses the quality assurance of the eye care provided by the Wakefield and North Kirklees Screening programme.
High quality CPR skill retention is poor. We hypothesized that "just-in-time" and "just-in-place" training programs would be effective and well-accepted to maintain CPR skills among PICU staff.
Self-efficacy may predict performance following life-support training but may be negatively influenced by experiences during training. To investigate both this and the use of self-efficacy in self-assessment we investigated the relationship between self-efficacy and measured performance during a simulated resuscitation, and the effect of death of a simulated patient on self-efficacy.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate compliance of community PAD sites to recommendations for site maintenance as proposed by the American Heart Association (AHA).
To determine the success rate of novice users in the telephone-directed placement of the King LT-D airway during a simulated respiratory arrest in order to establish the feasibility of conducting further study into use of the device by first responders after minimal training.
The appropriate time point of evaluation of functional outcome in cardiac arrest survivors remains a matter of debate. In this cohort study we posed the hypothesis that there are no significant changes in Cerebral Performance Categories (CPC) between one month and six months after out-of hospital cardiac arrest. If changes were present we aimed to identify reasons for these changes.
To investigate the impact of a history of diabetes mellitus on the neurologic outcome in comatose survivors of cardiac arrest of cardiac origin treated with mild hypothermia.
This study had 2 aims: (1) to examine the effect of an e-learning program as a booster of competence acquired from an Advanced Life Support (ALS) course. (2) To identify factors related to the use of the e-learning program.
To evaluate the usefulness of positron emission tomography (PET) as a predictor of long-term disability after a severe traumatic brain injury (TBI).
To evaluate the effect of gravitational valves on over-drainage in hydrocephalus in adults.
To characterise the psychomotor profile of children between 5 and 12 years of age who were clinically diagnosed with ADHD in the town of Manizales (Colombia) and to compare it with healthy children of the same age.
To review available data relating Lp-PLA2 and stroke.
TNF blockers have been recently evaluated for treating refractory sarcoidosis and could be efficient. However, several cases of sarcoidosis have been diagnosed during anti-TNF therapy. Here, we report the largest series of sarcoid-like granulomatosis following TNF blocker treatment.
To evaluate the potential of MRI of finger and wrist joints for diagnosing early RA. MRI was evaluated as a stand-alone tool and in combination with ACR criteria and serum markers such as RF.
The aim of this study was to assess the frequency of atherosclerotic plaques and intima-media thickness (IMT) in patients with FMF and suitable controls.
To investigate whether there is a difference in waiting time between indication and start of anti-TNF-alpha therapy in younger and older RA patients.
With the introduction of high-throughput biomarker measurements, traditional analysis of these markers is increasingly difficult. Using samples from a diverse group of patients, we tested the applicability of cluster analysis to these data. Using this method, we aim to visualize some of the patterns specific to certain disease groups. In particular, we focus on juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), a multifactorial autoimmune disorder that ultimately leads to chronic inflammation of the joints.
To assess if combination rituximab and cyclophosphamide is more effective than rituximab monotherapy as an induction therapy for proliferative lupus nephritis.
To investigate joint involvement in SSc and its relationship with autoantibody to the hnRNP and to anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP).
Etanercept, a recombinant TNF receptor fusion protein, has been approved for the treatment of resistant polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis at a dosage of 0.4 mg/kg twice weekly in children older than 4 years. In adult patients, efficacy and safety of etanercept 25 mg twice weekly was comparable with 50 mg once weekly. Therefore, safety and efficacy of etanercept once weekly 0.8 mg/kg up to 50 mg s.c. was evaluated in a 3 month open label trial.
To assess the response of RA patients to rituximab (RTX) treatment using a sensitive imaging technique for synovitis.
In addition to its chemopreventive activity, phase 2 enzyme inducers have been recently found to have anti-inflammatory activity. In this study, we examined the influence of sulphoraphane (SPN), one of the most potent inducers of the phase II enzymes on the production of MMPs by pro-inflammatory cytokines in human articular chondrocytes.
The purpose of this study was to explore the development of a pre-clinical nuclear imaging model as a tool for testing novel radiopharmaceutical agents for imaging and/or delivery systems to human tissues. Here we report for the first time the imaging of human synovial tissue transplanted into SCID mice using a radiolabelled anti-E-selectin antibody and NanoSPECT/CT technology.
Since mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has emerged as an immunosuppressant for treating proliferative lupus nephritis, the role of cyclophosphamide (CYC)-containing regimens is being challenged. Efficacy data from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and previous meta-analyses comparing these two agents for treating lupus nephritis have been inconsistent as they were heterogeneous in design and of small sample size. An updated meta-analysis is therefore required.
To analyse prospectively the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity as well as the clinical relevance of ribosomal P (anti-P) autoantibodies in a large cohort of SLE patients.
To develop a reliable and user-friendly digital Childhood HAQ (CHAQ) to facilitate systematic monitoring of disease activity at the outpatient clinic in juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) patients.
Two types of anti-Ro/SSA antibodies have been described, anti-SSA-52 kDa (aSSA52) and anti-SSA-60 kDa (aSSA60), each specific to different antigens. However, conflicting data exist concerning the involvement of the aSSA52 in autoimmune diseases (ADs). We therefore determined the clinical significance of these antibodies in patients displaying aSSA52, but not aSSA60.
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is the major determinant of morbidity and mortality in the anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS). Here we have retrospectively assessed 11 ASS patients with ILD treated with the anti-CD20 mAB rituximab at our tertiary referral hospital.
To describe the achievement of inactive disease (ID) and remission in polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and to measure the associations among patient characteristics, imaging results and these outcomes.
To describe the biologic treatment regimens and report the efficacy and safety of biologic therapies in a multicentre series of children with primary systemic vasculitis (PSV).
TNF receptor 1-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) is a rare disease belonging to the heterogeneous group of hereditary periodic fever (HPF) syndromes. By their monogenic origins, the HPF syndromes are clearly differentiated from other periodic inflammatory episodes occurring in autoimmune, neoplastic and infectious diseases. We aim to determine the incidence of TRAPS and the spectrum of mutations in the TNFRSF1A gene, and to give a brief survey of clinical signs.
To identify a practical definition of disabling foot pain in older adults for clinical and research use, using the Manchester Foot Pain and Disability Index (FPDI).
Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a large-vessel vasculitis of unknown aetiology. The annual incidence in hospital-based studies is 1-2/million. The UK General Practice Research Database (UKGPRD) contains complete primary care records on 3.6 million people. There are no data on the incidence of TAK in the UK or from primary care anywhere in the world. The aim of this study was to determine the annual incidence of TAK in the UK using the UKGPRD and in a well-defined hospital population [Norfolk Vasculitis Register (NORVASC)].
In AS there is no agreed definition of which aspects are important when describing functioning. This limits the possibility to classify, evaluate and investigate the consequences of the disease. This study aimed to achieve consensus among health professionals on which aspects of functioning are typical and relevant for AS patients using the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) as reference.
To evaluate whether the use of platelet immunohistochemistry (IHC) markers improves the sensitivity of histological methods to detect microthrombosis in SLE nephritis and aPLs and to analyse the clinicopathological correlations of microthrombosis in this setting.
Our aim was to establish which tissue components express advanced glycation/lipoperoxidation end products (AGEs) and their receptor (RAGE) in skin from patients with SSc, and how their expression relates to the disease subtypes and various clinical parameters.
Infant hearing deficiency is a human disorder with devastating effects and serious implications for the development of speech and language. Early diagnosis of hearing loss should be the objective of a multidisciplinary team, and early-intervention programs should immediately follow this. The aim of this study was to investigate the knowledge and conduct of pediatricians and pediatric residents in a tertiary teaching hospital regarding deafness.
Genetic abnormalities in cell proliferation-regulating genes have been described in premalignant lesions. The aims here were to evaluate c-myc protein expression in non-palpable breast lesions associated with microcalcifications, detected by screening mammography, and to compare these results with histopathological, clinical and epidemiological variables.
Patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) and secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT2) are prone to develop heterotopic calcifications and severe bone disease. Determination of the sites most commonly affected would decrease costs and patients' exposure to X-ray radiation. The aim here was to determine which skeletal sites produce most radiographic findings, in order to evaluate hemodialysis patients with HPT2, and to describe the most prevalent radiographic findings.
Respiratory muscle strength is relevant to the clinical situation of elderly patients, particularly those presenting with respiratory or cardiac diseases. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the respiratory muscle strength of institutionalized elderly women, compare this with predicted values for the Brazilian population and calculate the correlation with age and anthropometric characteristics.
Many eye diseases involve increased local levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and there are several therapeutic strategies for them. Thus, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of bevacizumab for treating eye diseases involving increased local levels of VEGF, as the assumed pathophysiological mechanism.
Contact with patients has important implications for medical students' education. Previous studies have shown that patients in teaching hospitals have positive views about medical education. The aim here was to assess the acceptability of medical education among patients and their companions in a non-teaching private hospital that is planning to implement a medical teaching program in the near future.
This study aimed to identify any clinical-empirical evidence for two pathways between compliance and quality of life.
To examine for FERD in antipsychotic-naïve schizophrenia patients and the effect of short-term atypical antipsychotic treatment on FERD.
Although olanzapine may have advantages over other second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) regarding longer time to treatment discontinuation among chronically ill patients, little evidence has been provided for the comparative effectiveness of SGAs in the acute phase. We aimed to determine if any of four SGAs were more effective in treating newly admitted acute schizophrenic patients. We performed a rater-blinded, randomized controlled trial of four SGAs in 15 psychiatric emergency sites. Eligible patients were 18-64 years old and met diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia, acute schizophrenia-like psychotic disorder, or schizoaffective disorder. A final total of 78 patients were randomly assigned by means of sealed envelopes to receive risperidone (3-12 mg/day; n=20), olanzapine (10-20 mg/day; n=17), quetiapine (300-750 mg/day; n=20), or aripiprazole (12-30 mg/day; n=21), with follow-up at 8 weeks. The primary outcome measure was all-cause treatment discontinuation.
Identify the optimal magnitude of response to antipsychotic medication at various early time points that best predicts subsequent non-response at 8 weeks.
Currently, the only FDA-approved therapy for acute ischemic stroke is the administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). Echogenic liposomes (ELIP), phospholipid vesicles filled with gas and fluid, can be manufactured to incorporate tPA. Also, transcranial ultrasound-enhanced thrombolysis can increase the recanalization rate in stroke patients. However, there is little data on lytic efficacy of combining ultrasound, echogenic liposomes, and tPA treatment. In this study, we measure the effects of pulsed 120-kHz ultrasound on the lytic efficacy of tPA and tPA-incorporating ELIP (t-ELIP) in an in-vitro human clot model. It is hypothesized that t-ELIP exhibits similar lytic efficacy to that of rt-PA.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of fabella-tibial suture (FTS) on long-term outcome in dogs with cranial cruciate ligament (CCL) insufficiency and concurrent medial meniscal tear (MMT) that were managed by an open, caudal pole medial meniscectomy (CPMM).
To compare the mechanical properties of various interlocking nail constructs in medio-lateral (ML) and cranio-caudal (CC) bending.
Little is known about the risks of injury to dogs participating in the relatively new sport of canine agility. The purpose of this study was to identify the factors that put the participating dog at risk as well as determine the anatomical sites that were most commonly injured.
The aims of this study were to evaluate demographic, clinical, laboratory, treatment, and outcome characteristics for pediatric patients with scorpion sting envenomation in southeast Turkey and to describe features that may be predictive of the need for pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) care.
Sleep at extreme altitudes is characterized by the repetitive occurrence of central apneas that in some cases may lead to a marked decrease in arterial oxygen saturation. During the Ludwig Maximilians University Expedition to Mt. Everest (MedEx 2006), nocturnal polygraphic recordings were made at different altitudes and included the first recordings ever made at 7500 m, which were completed on 8 separate occasions during the expedition.
To compare the effectiveness of a SAM splint molded into a cervical collar with that of a Philadelphia cervical collar at limiting movement of the cervical spine in 5 different movements.
There exist no prospectively generated analyses of the type and frequency of medical incidents in desert settings. We created a database of every illness and injury during 6 field seasons in the Gobi Desert in order to optimize expedition medical and safety planning.
The prevalence of airflow obstruction in recreational self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (SCUBA) divers is unknown. Since airflow obstruction is a relative contraindication for diving, we conducted a study to determine its prevalence and magnitude in a cohort of recreational divers in Saba, Netherlands Antilles.
To determine if an "industry standard" exists for wilderness first aid training and certification of outdoor adventure/education leaders.
To determine whether high altitude travel adversely affects mountain enthusiasts with Raynaud's phenomenon.
The aim of the present study was to examine the cross-sectional and 2-year longitudinal associations between perceived organizational justice, self-rated health and burnout.
To evaluate radiofrequency thermal ablation (RTA) for treatment of cystic echinococcosis in animal models (explanted organs).
To investigate the possible protective effects of carnosol on liver injury induced by intestinal ischemia reperfusion (I/R).
To investigate the role of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-7 (IGFBP-7) in the activation and transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells (HSC) in vitro.
To characterize thermal hypersensitivity in patients with constipation- and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
To investigate whether birch pollen allergy symptoms are linked with gut microbiota changes and whether probiotics have an effect on these.
To estimate the characteristics of Color Doppler findings and the results of hepatic radionuclide angiography (HRA) in secondary Hodgkin's hepatic lymphoma.
To explore the impact of fecal incontinence (FI) on quality of life (QOL) of patients attending urogynecology and colorectal clinics (CCs).
To investigate the usefulness of magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and the need for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in cases of suspected spontaneous passage of stones into the common bile duct.
To test the psychometric properties of a Chinese [(Hong Kong) HK] translation of the chronic liver disease questionnaire (CLDQ).
To study the liver and spleen volume variations in hepatic fibrosis patients at different histopathological stages.
To optimize the preoperative diagnosis and surgical management of adult intussusception (AI).
To evaluate the methods of diagnosis and surgical treatment for nonfunctional islet cell tumor (NICT).
To summarize the experience on diagnosis and treatment of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) related pancreatic endocrine tumors (PET).
To study the diagnosis and treatment of glucagonoma.
To analyze the value of intraoperative ultrasonography (IOUS) in the diagnosis and therapy of insulinoma.
To evaluate the role of breast B ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in assessing the tumor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer.
To compare the clinical efficiency of two strategy in the treatment of secondary common bile duct stones: laparoscopic cholecystectomy with transcytotic common bile duct exploration (LC + LTCBDE), or laparoscopic cholecystectomy after endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST + LC).
To evaluate the effects of primary deep venous valvular incompetence of lower limb (PDVI) to the occurrence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) after human total knee replacement (TKR).
To observe the primary clinical result of digital template as navigation to the upper cervical pedicle instrumentation.
To compare the indications and therapeutic effects of several invasive interventions in treating postoperative sputum retention.
To investigate different characteristics of the video-assisted thoracoscopic (VATS) versus transsternal thymectomy for myasthenia gravis (MG).
To investigate the stimulated effect of liver regeneration on colon cancer cells in remnant liver in rats.
To examine the early changes in gene expression levels in lung tissues by cDNA microarray using a rat model of total hepatic ischemia reperfusion and to analysis function of the changes.
To determine the safety and efficacy of local administration of lentivirus-mediated small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in murine air pouch model.
To investigate the effect of different magnitudes of tensile strain on human osteoblasts differentiation.
To discuss the results of total knee arthroplasty undertaken for Charcot arthritis patients.
To evaluate the indication, time and strategy of surgery for patients with bilateral carotid atherosclerotic stenosis.
To evaluate the clinical effects of carotid endarterectomy for carotid stenosis and occlusion.
To investigate the effect of two clopidogrel pretreatment duration on platelet activation in patients undergoing stenting.
To evaluate the operation method and prevention from complications of extracranial carotid stenosis.
To explore influencing factors of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in geriatric carotid stenosis, and to analyze changes of rCBF and clinical symptoms after carotid stenting.
To observe the changes of nitric oxide (NO) and endothelin (ET) serum level in the Guangxi BA-MA minipigs whose carotid arteries were injured by balloon denudation and in the patients with carotid stent assisted angioplasty.
To probe into indication of living-related liver transplantation (LRLT) for Wilson's Disease.
To assess the efficacy and safety of damage control surgery with abdominal packing in non-trauma patients with severe abdominal hemorrhage.
To analyze the long-term results of TIPS, TIPS with coronary vein occlusion (CVO) and combined TIPS and portal azygous disconnection for the treatment of portal hypertension and variceal bleedings.
To investigate the clinical features and treatment of multifocal papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).
To evaluate technique aspects of video-assisted thoracoscopic lobectomy for benign diseases.
To explore the way of promoting the efficacy of surgical treatment for ventricular septal rupture (VSR) after acute myocardium infarction in terms of perioperative and long term survival.
To rudiment analyze the different intervention factors affecting the spinal cord injury functional recovery initially through prospective study project.
To investigate the biomechanical strength of diphosphonate impregnated bone cement (DIBC).
To compare the clinical characteristics of triple-negative (TN) breast cancer and non-triple-negative (NTN) breast cancer, enrich the information of TN patients, and provide evidences for individualized combined treatment.
To identify predictive markers of the long-term outcome for neo-adjuvant chemotherapy (NC) in locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) treated with intravenous vinorelbine (V) and epirubicin (E) combination regimen.
To study the clinical and pathological characteristics of operable breast cancer in women over 65 years.
To investigate the expression of CD34, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor Flk-1/KDR in precancerous lesion, atypical hyperplasia (AH) and infiltrating carcinoma of breast cancer and to explore the correlation between angiogenesis abnormality and the tumor progression.
To study the clinical application of digital medical in the operation on primary liver cancer.
To illustrate the bacteriology and their susceptibility to antibiotics in patients with biliary tract diseases and provide information for antibiotic choices.
To review the experience of staged total cavopulmonary connection (TCPC) in complex congenital heart diseases.
To observe the short and mid-term therapeutic effects of Bi-polar ablation systems for intraoperative treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF).
To explore the program of preoperative evaluation, preoperative preparation and separation operation of pygopagus conjoined twins.
To study and analyze the clinical factors contributing to the failure of primary posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) reconstruction and to guide our clinical treatment.
To evaluate therapeutic effect and reliability of bipolar transurethral plasma kinetic prostatectomy (TUPKP) for high risk level benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
To locate motor functional area of patients who undergone modified anatomical hemispherectomy in order to analysis the plasticity of upper limbs motor.
To retrospectively analyze the experiences, indications, technique, and results of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients over 70 years old.
To summarize the experience of minimally invasive robotic coronary bypass on beating heart using da Vinci S in China.
To estimate the clinical effect and long-term follow-up of minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass grafting (MIDCAB) via left anterior small thoracotomy.
To evaluate the effect of increasing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) flow volume in improving outcome of patients with carotid artery stenosis performed coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) procedure.
To observe the influence of endoscopic radial artery harvesting techniques on the prevalence of complications after coronary artery bypass grafting, and to assess the potential trauma to the radial artery through the histological changes.
To verify the predictive value of EuroSCORE of early mortality in coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) patients.
To evaluate the value of ischemic preconditioning in clinical hepatectomy.
To summarize the experience in the managements of portal vein thrombosis (PVT) and to evaluate the impact of PVT on intraoperative course and postoperative outcome in liver transplantation.
To analyze the factors associated with anastomotic leakage after anterior resection in rectal cancer with the technique of total mesorectal excision (TME).
To evaluate the value of spiral computed tomography in the preoperative assessment of the degree of tumor infiltration in mesorectum and circumferential resection margin status of rectal cancer compared with large tissue slice technique.
To study the value and surgical techniques of transplantation of large anterior latissimus dorsi muscular flap combination with musculus rectus abdominis flap.
To analyze the different decompression methods to treat cervical spondylosis based on imageological evaluation.
To study the technique and effect of anterior decompression for the treatment of cervical spondylotic myelopathy associated with ossification of posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL).
To study the feasibility, security and validity of percutaneous angioplasty (PTA) or percutaneous angioplasty and stenting (PTAS) for symptomatic stenosis of middle cerebral artery.
To investigate the correlation between CD14 gene polymorphism and T cell-mediated immunity in severely burned patients.
To screen stable cell clones of CCL20 gene knockdown and assess their interference effects, recombinant lentivirus vectors with CCL20 gene specific shRNA were applied to infect human immortal keratinocyte line (HaCaT).
To evaluate the relation between different therapy and survival rate of liver metastasis of colorectal cancer (LMCC).
To elucidate an adequate hepatectomy margin for simultaneous liver and colorectal resection in colorectal cancer liver metastasis.
To investigate the association between expressions of HSP70, HSP90 and efficacy of chemotherapy in colorectal cancer patients with unresectable liver metastasis.
To explore the pattern of lymph node metastasis and its influence on the prognosis of early gastric cancer(EGC).
To explore the reason, features and preventive measures of residual carcinoma at incisal edge after gastric cancer operation.
To investigate the effect of laparoscopic-assisted resection of rectal carcinoma on perioperative levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), immunoglobulins(Ig) and complements.
To study the effect of laparoscopic surgery position and CO(2) pneumoperitoneum on deep vein hemodynamics of lower limb.
To evaluate anorectal dynamics, function and efficacy of ultralow rectal carcinoma patients undergone intersphincteric resection(ISR).
To evaluate the feasibility, the radicalness and efficacy of laparoscopy for advanced colorectal cancer.
To screen the radiosensitivity-related genes of colorectal cancer cells.
To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab in combination of irinotecan,fluorouracil and leucovorin for metastatic colorectal cancer treated by failed prior oxaliplatin -based regiment.
To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics, surgical treatment and prognosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors(GIST).
To compare the long-term results of procedure for prolapse and hemorrhoids(PPH) and Milligan-Morgan(MM) hemorrhoidectomy in the treatment of third- and fourth-degree hemorrhoids.
To study the specific metabonomic profiling of serum from colorectal cancer patients to find out the low molecule metabolites associated intimately with colorectal cancer,and to establish specific metabolic model for the diagnosis of colorectal cancer.
To investigate the expression differences of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and caspase-3 among colorectal carcinoma, adenoma and normal mucosa, and to identify the relationship between AIF and caspase-3 expression in colorectal adenoma-carcinoma sequence.
To investigate the relation between protein expression of 4 genes [P53,c-erbB-2,vascular endothelial factors(VEGF) and CD44]and survival rate in stage II( colorectal cancer(CRC) patients without radiochemotherapy after radical resection.
To investigate the effect of siRNA targeting Livin and Survivin gene simultaneously on the proliferation and apoptosis of human colon cancer cells.
To investigate the effect of CD8(+)CD28(-) suppressor T cells(Ts) induced by dendritic cell(DC) with major histocompatibility complex 1(MHC-1) expression RNA interference on immune tolerance in rat intestinal transplantation.
To investigate the pathologic monitoring of intestinal graft rejection in auxiliary en-bloc liver-small bowel transplantation in pigs.
To investigate the regulation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) on immune suppressive cytokines in situ colon cancer cells.
To investigate the effect of transfection with human soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1(sFlt-1) gene on cell growth and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) concentration of the culture supernatant in human colon cancer cell line Lovo.
To investigate the effect of glucose excursion on oxidative stress that is expressed by plasma 8-iso prostaglandin F2alpha (8-iso) level.
To investigate the characteristics of glycemic stability in the first-degree relatives of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients by continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS).
To evaluate the characteristics of daily glucose change, insulin sensitivity, and insulin release in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) women with normal glucose tolerance.
To study the relationship between the glucose fluctuation and beta cell function in the diabetes mellitus (DM) patients.
To investigate the characteristics of glycemic excursion of different subtypes of glucose tolerance.
To investigate the T cell proliferative response and antibody formation to citrullinated collagen type II (Cit-CII) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and explore whether autoreactive T cells responding to Cit-CII plays a role in the pathogenesis of RA.
To invesigate the molecular pathogenesis of deafness among the youth by means of genetic testing so as to provide pre-marriage genetic counseling and instruction for the deaf youth.
To analyze the difficulty in diagnosis of pituitary hyperplasia secondary to primary hypothyroidism and reasons of misdiagnosis.
To evaluate the short-term effects and toxicity of vinorelbine combined with cisplatin (NP) as a neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen in treatment of operable breast cancer non-responsive to the combination of anthracyclines and taxanes.
To investigate the spatio-temporal expression of connexin (Cx) 40 and Cx45 genes in Cx43 knockout embryonic mouse hearts.
To study the chiral selectivity in vascular endothelial differentiation in drug resistant lung cancer cells induced by high-dose L- or D-methotrexate (MTX) enantiomer.
To investigate the influences of glutamine (Gln) on nitric oxide (NO) production and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in hepatocytes activated by interleukin (IL)-1beta, a pro-inflammatory cytokine.
To investigate the therapeutic effects of emodin on acute cholestatic hepatitis and mechanism thereof.
To study the nephrotoxicity tacrolimus (FK506) at the therapeutic dose the preventive effect of diltiazem (Dil), a calcium antagonist against the FK506-induced pathological changes.
To summarize the experience in surgical treatment for middle cerebral aneurysm (MCAA), and results and prognosis thereof.
To evaluate the feasibility of the injectable thermosetting chitosan-glycerophosphate-fibroblast (C-GP-FB) hydrogel as an embolizing material of intracranial aneurysm.
To explore the relationship between the characteristic geometry and the risk of rupture in cerebral saccular aneurysm.
To assess the value of computer navigation technique in spinal pedicle screw insertion.
To observe the short-term outcomes of the application of posterior short-segment fixation combined with intermediate screws in fresh thoracolumbar fracture.
To investigate the incidence and prognosis of drug-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in Shanghai.
To evaluate the long-term effects of percutaneous lumbar discectomy (PLD) and microendoscopic discectomy (MED) in treatment of lumbar disc herniation.
To investigate the clinical effect of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) combined with high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) ablation in treatment of large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
To investigate the incidence and influential factors of post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) following gynecologic surgery so as to provide guideline effective for clinical management.
To investigate the diagnosis of aortic origin of the right pulmonary artery (AORPA) and evaluate the efficacy of surgical treatment therefore.
Through an experiment in rabbits, to evaluate the role of reservation flaval ligament using different methods to prevent the epidural adhesion by observing the morphological changes and provide experiment evidences for clinic.
To study the correlation of intermittent low-dose administration of recombinant human parathyroid hormone (1-34) [rhPTH (1-34)] and the expression of Runx2 during early stage of fracture healing.
To compare the effects of different calcium sulfate pellets made by different methods in treating segmental defect of bone.
To evaluate the correlation between prothrombin gene G20210A mutation and deep vein thrombosis after total joint replacement through detecting distribution frequency of single nucleotide polymorphism of the gene in patients undergoing total joint replacement.
To investigate the inhibitory effect of nanoparticle-mediated endostatin gene therapy on hepatocellular carcinoma xenografts combined with local hyperthermia utilizing heat-inducible promoter.
To investigate the effects of nanogold in inhibition of angiogenesis and growth of liver cancer cells.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization combined with percutaneous ethanol injection in treating unresectable primary liver cancer.
To investigate the sustained release rule of doxorubicin/polylactide-grafted dextran copolymer (DOX/DEX-PLA) nanoparticles and the effect thereof in killing hepatocarcinoma cells.
To investigate the relevant factors of seroresistance of syphilis by clinical analysis and study of immunological function.
To investigate the percentage and significance of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells in the patients with haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS).
To study the relationship between tumor infiltration in mesorectum and prognosis of middle and lower rectal cancer.
To explore the role of bacteria in etiology of chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS), i.e., chronic prostatitis and the correlation between presence of bacterial signal of 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) gene and the response to antibiotics.
To prepare rabbit polyclonal antibodies against intracellular peptides of human platelet glycoprotein GPIbalpha.
To investigate the curative effects of inhaling signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) antisense oligonucleotide (ASON) on alveolitis and pulmonary fibrosis and the best administration time.
To isolate and purify human islet according to the method established by Ricordi and to evaluate the function and safety of these isolated human islets.
To investigate the anti-tumor effect of eukaryotic expressing plasmid containing human angiostatin Kringle (1 - 3) [hAG (K1-3)] combined with soluble tumor necrotic factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (sTRAIL) genes on human gastric cancer xenografts in nude mice.
To investigate the effects of ischemic postconditioning (IPost) in protecting hypertrophic myocardium subjected to ischemic-reperfusion (I/R) and to study the role of extracellular regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2) in mediating such protection.
To investigate the effects of reversal of hyperglycemic toxicity on the synthesis and secretion of glucagon by the alpha cells and the possible mechanisms thereof.
To investigate the protection of simvastatin on monocrotaline (MCT)-induce pulmonary hypertension (PH) and the mechanism thereof.
To investigate the optimal concentrations of sevoflurane and propofol for laryngeal mask airway (LMA) insertion in Chinese boys of different ages.
To investigate the protective effects of postconditioning with different concentrations of sevoflurane on renal ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury.
To investigate the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of sevoflurane required for insertion of laryngeal mask airway (LMA) in anesthetized children.
To investigate the effects of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) on plasma pentraxin-3 (PTX3) level and balance of Th1/Th2 function in children with congenital heart malformations.
To investigate the immune and inflammation confusion state in severe sepsis and the effects of two way immunomodulation therapy with continuous blood purification (CBP), thymosin alpha1, and combined therapy of CBP and thymosin alpha(1).
To study the relationship between the fulcrum bending flexibility (FBF) and correction rate (CR) of adult idiopathic scoliosis, and to explore the ability of FBF to assess the correction effect in relation to fulcrum bending flexibility.
To explore the profile of changes of memory monitoring in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
To investigate the role of curved planar reformation (CPR) using multi-slice spiral CT scanning to evaluate the coronal and sagittal plane in scoliosis so as to affirm the features of supine coronal and sagittal plane in idiopathic scoliosis.
To evaluate the intraobserver and interobserver reliability and main influencing factors of the King, Lenke, and PUMC classification systems for idiopathic scoliosis (IS) using radiographs that had not been premeasured.
To evaluate the prevalence of fetal anomalies in recent 10 years and explore the effective methods of early diagnosis and treatment.
To evaluate the efficacy of Endosteal(TM) (rh-endostatin, YH-16) combined with docetaxel and carboplatin (TP) regimen for the adjuvant treatment of non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) and its impact on circulating blood markers.
To study the CT manifestations of the solid-pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas (SPTP) and to explore the value of post-processing in the surgery.
To summarize the clinical and pathological features of glycogen storage disease (GSD) type III.
To study the effect of (60)Co gamma ray on proliferation and differentiation potency of MSC. To evaluate the function of heart after early stage of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in rats by transplantation of MSC.
To investigate the Influence of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion on gap junction ultrastructure and expression of connexin (Cx)36, Cx32, and Cx26 in hippocampus the microstructure of gap junction and the expression of gap junction subunits in the hippocampus of cognition impaired animals. Cognition impairment was induced by the permanent occlusion of the carotid arteries (2-VO).
To investigate the effects of Notch signaling on scars in a rabbit ear model of hypertrophic scarring.
To validate whether STAT1 participated in the process of CTGF-induced proliferation and differentiation of human hypertrophic scar fibroblast (hHSF) on account of past research.
To investigate the proper ways to manage a large cicatricial scalp alopecia.
To investigate whether intralesional injection of low-dose 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) and corticosteroid can increase effective rate and decrease recurrence rate of surgically removed auricular keloid.
To study the correlation between the expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, MMP-9, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and vasculogenic mimicry (VM) in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).
To explore the relationship between expression and regulation of Megalin in gallbladder mucosa and cholesterol gallstone disease.
To explore the association between the gene mutation of transcription factor Nkx2.5 and Chinese patients with congenital heart disease (CHD).
To investigate insulin secretion function and insulin resistance in Chinese newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes (obese and non-obese patients) in order to provide evidence for clinical treatment.
To evaluate the side effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) on gastric mucosa, and to study the preventive effects of teprenone in patients.
To discuss the potential mechanisms and the role of adrenalitis with extensive hemorrhage and necrosis in acute critical infectious diseases. Methods Forensic autopsy cases from 1987 to 2007 were retrospectively analyzed. And 10 cases of them were involved in the primary and critical infection with acute inflammation, hemorrhage and necrosis of adrenal glands. Results Clinical diagnoses of 10 cases were respiratory tract infection (n=6), septic shock (n=2), acute esophagitis (n=1), and undefined causes (n=1), and the quickly aggravating conditions resulted in death ultimately. However, systematic autopsy confirmed that 7 cases died of acute lymphocytic pancarditis, 2 cases acute and lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia and 1 case epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis with septicemia. And severe complications of all cases included hemorrhagic necrotizing adrenalitis, systemic inflammatory response syndrome and multiple organ failure (MOF). Conclusions Hemorrhagic necrotizing adrenalitis should be considered as one of the important pathological changes in fatal MOF resulting from severe infection and trauma etc. More attention should be paid in clinical treatment.
The oxalate-degradation genes of Oxalobacter formigenes (Ox.F)-frc gene and oxc gene-were cloned and transfected into intestinal stem cell population of the mouse to make the latter obtain oxalate-degradation function.
To explore an innovative method for preparation of a whole-liver reconstruct scaffold with intact three-dimensional geometry, vasculature and bile duct by decellularization technology.
To detect the effect of functional status and immunophenotype of dendritic cell modified with growth hormone (GH) from by cord blood.
To investigate the effects of Shenmai injection containing active principles of Ginseng and ophiopogon root on the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1alpha) in brain after hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD).
Programmed death-1 (PD-1) up-regulation can impair virus-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses during chronic viral infection. Whether PD-1 affects virus-specific CD8 T cells in humans with acute hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains unknown. This study aimed to characterize the PD-1 expression during acute hepatitis B (AHB), and further addressed how PD-1 regulates the apoptosis of CD8(+) T cells in this disease.
To build a 3D finite element model of whole lumbar spine and verify its efficiency and analyze the biomechanical change of L3-4 motion segment.
To investigate the clinical and radiographic outcomes for varying degrees of degenerative lumbar scoliosis using different surgical options with a minimal 5-year follow-up.
To elucidate the clinical and imaging characters of reversible posterior encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) and to discuss the etiological factors and the probable pathogenesis.
To observe whether the severity of white matter lesions (WML) is related to ischemia in elderly.
To explore the process and technique of neuroendoscopic operation to treat obstructive hydrocephalus caused by cysts located in the pathway of CSF circulation.
To investigate the ultrastructural features of mitochondrial cytopathies and its diagnostic value.
To evaluate the effect of Leksell Gamma Knife (LGK) on elderly patients with large vestibular schwannomas (VS) and to summarize the indications for LGK in patients with large VS.
To test the potential of bone marrow stem cells mobilized by granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to promote regeneration of myocyte and neovascularization in a rat model of myocardial infarction.
To investigate the roles of signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) in differentiation and cytokine secretion of T helper (Th) cells by separate silencing.
To study the effects of ketamine anesthesia and surgery on cognition and synaptic structure in hippocampus of senile rats.
To confirm whether it is feasible to detect HBV cccDNA based on an analysis of its stability and clearance dynamics in the blood of ducks.
To evaluate the predictive value of different admission blood glucose levels for short-term mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction (STEMI).
To investigate the number and function of circulating endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) in different vascular complications of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and its associations with vascular endothelial function.
The aim of study is to investigate the changes of structure and function of heart in diabetic rat after myocardial infarction, and to study the expression of the GLUT4 and the effects of trimetazidine on the ventricular remodeling.
To investigate the association of CTLA-4 + 49A/G and CT60 gene polymorphisms with type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and thyroid autoimmunity. Subjects Three hundred thirty-two T1DM patients and 476 controls were recruited in the study.
To investigate the prevalence, clinical features of latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) from phenotypic type 2 diabetic patients and the relationship between LADA and metabolic syndrome (MS).
To analyze the characteristics of female chronic constipation (CC), contributing factors of severe constipation and the correlation between female CC and pelvic floor dysfunction (PFD) so as to provide references for the diagnosis and treatment of female CC.
To screen and characterize the serum protein biomarkers in nephroblastoma so as to establish the proteins as the specific serum biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis monitoring.
To compare the clinicopathologic parameters of gastric carcinoma between different phases and to investigate the prognostic factors for gastric carcinoma.
To review retrospectively the urological complications in 1 223 kidney transplants.
To investigate the expression of NK cells receptor NKG2D from peripheral blood in patients with primary hepatic carcinoma and the relationship between NKG2D expression and cytotoxicity of NK cells.
To investigate the influencing factors on the prognosis of hilar cholangiocarcinoma.
To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic radical resection of gallbladder carcinoma.
In order to explore the regulating effects of Egr-1 promoter sequences in transcriptional targeting by 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) on the expression of hematopoietic growth factor genes.
To investigate the anticoagulant methods and characters of hemodialysis patients in hospitals of Grade III Level A.
To investigate the distribution of polymorphism of glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) in different kinds gastric intestinal metaplasia (IM), and the carcinogenesis risk of different types of IM.
To study the effects of angiogenesis on tumorigenesis and the progression of breast carcinoma and precancerous lesion.
To evaluate the added value of single breath-hold diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in detection of small HCC lesions (&lt;or=3 cm) in patients with chronic liver disease, by comparing the detection sensitivity of DWI/conventional dynamic contrast enhancement (DCE) MRI and that of conventional DCE MRI alone.
To investigate the feasibility and clinical significance of single-stage posterior vertebrectomy with reconstruction for the treatment of spinal tumor.
To verify the accuracy of measurement of humeral head retroversion angle with multislice spiral computerized tomography (MSCT) volume rendering technique.
To compare the effects of surgical and non-surgical treatments for high-grade intracranial arteriovenous malformation (AVM), identify the determinants of neurological function deterioration after surgery, and calculate the annual hemorrhage rate.
To investigate the spatial nature of mental number line.
To investigate the effects of different mutated sites in the vpr gene of HIV on the apoptosis of host cells, and the possible mechanism thereof.
To investigate the neuronal activity in the ventrolateral thalamus in relation to essential tremor (ET).
To investigate the effects of micro-encapsulated bifidobacteria on gut barrier and bacterial translocation after hemorrhagic shock and resuscitation.
To investigate the effects of ovarian carcinoma cells on the differentiation, maturation, and function of the dendritic cells (DC).
To study the feasibility of ovarian tumor cells lysates pulsed dendritic cells (DCs) in the immunotherapy of tumor prevention via cytotoxic test in-vitro.
The dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) plays an important role in the reinforcing and motivating effects of ethanol. Several polymorphisms have been reported to affect receptor expression. The amount of DRD2, expressed in a given individual, is the result of the expression of both alleles, each representing a distinct haplotype. We examined the hypothesis that haplotypes composed of polymorphisms, associated with reduced receptor expression, are more frequent in alcoholics compared with healthy individuals.
To determine if complicated acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is related to specific cosmophysical activities.
To analyse the scientific products of full professors of Occupational Medicine in Italian Universities in order to provide a framework for discussing a standard of productivity with objective metric parameters.
The EPM research unit, in cooperation with the Italian Society of Digestive Endoscopy (SIED) and with the patronage of the Italian Society of Ergonomics (SIE), undertook research that would permit assessment of upper limb biomechanical overload using the OCRA method during gastroscopy and colonoscopy and, via a pilot study, collect health data on 179 workers employed in endoscopy services.
The aim of this study was to ascertain whether occupational exposure to low levels of ionizing radiation can cause an increase in prevalence of cataract.
The aim of this study was to improve and standardize a screening method to evaluate asbestos bundle release from asbestos-containing materials.
The present study was carried out by administering a questionnaire to 1295 teachers from ten different Italian regions aimed at evaluating teachers' conditions as well as their perception of work-related health risks.
The recently introduced Italian law on the protection of workers' health represents a novelty because it gives the Ethics Code of the International Commission on Occupational Health legal strength. This paper aims at examining article 25 of legislative decree 81/2008 by comparing the points of the Ethics Code and the Deontology Code of the Italian medical profession.
To identify the predictive value for death on a long waiting list (WL) for the complications of liver disease.
Evaluation of the efficiency for endoscopical transnasal surgical techniques of rhino-sinusal benign tumors.
In the present paper we describe the clinicopathological and immunohistochemical findings in a case of GCT of the penis shaft in a 31-years-old man.
Identify if outreach support increases school-aged children's participation in recreational activities.
Assessment of self-reported physical activity (PA) and effects on health measures.
There is a dearth of information about factors related to physical activity among Mexican-Americans with diabetes. Self-efficacy and social support are associated with physical activity; however, little is known about their roles within different cultural groups.
Smarter than Smoking is a multistrategy statewide youth smoking intervention. This article describes key strategies and results from its inception in 1995 to 2005.
Model the potential national health benefits and medical savings from reduced daily intake of calories, sodium, and saturated fat among the U.S. adult population.
To model the potential long-term national productivity benefits from reduced daily intake of calories and sodium.
To describe physical activity (PA) interventions implemented in American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) populations in the United States and Canada.
To identify characteristics of effective interventions designed to increase physical activity (PA) or fitness among African-Americans.
The objectives of the study were to illustrate the process in which residents pursue the specialty of respiratory medicine and to establish a strategic springboard that may encourage more residents to select respiratory medicine as their specialty.
Metabolic syndrome (Met S) is one of the risk factors of atherosclerotic vascular diseases related to visceral fat accumulation. However, it is well known that morbidity and mortality of hemodialysis (HD) patients are associated with malnutrition and emaciation rather than obesity, representing "reverse epidemiology". The risk of visceral fat accumulation or Met S in HD patients remains unclear. Therefore, we evaluated atherosclerosis and Met S in HD patients using various markers of obesity by means of bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) and brachial-ankle PWV(baPWV).
To evaluate the long-term mortality experience of workers exposed to arsenic, cadmium, and other substances at a copper mine and smelter in Copperhill, Tennessee studied earlier as part of an industry-wide study.
To investigate the cost effectiveness of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX 2) selective inhibitors and traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and the addition of proton pump inhibitors to these treatments, for people with osteoarthritis.
To examine recent trends and social inequalities in age specific coronary heart disease mortality.
TNF-alpha secreted by tumor cells and macrophages that have infiltrated into the micro-environment of a tumor may promote the metastasis of a variety of malignant cancers, including breast cancer. The present study was designed to detect gene expression changes in metastatic MCF-7 cells treated with a low dose of TNF-alpha (20ng/mL), and to further explore the mechanisms by which TNF-alpha can contribute to metastasis.
To identify new polymorphisms (single nucleotide polymorphisms, SNPs) in DNA repair pathways that are associated with efficacy and toxicity in patients receiving oxaliplatin and capecitabine for advanced colorectal cancer (ACC).
Hot flashes are a common symptom and an important cause of decreased quality of life in women with breast cancer. Hot flashes involve vasodilatation and flushing, however, their complex etiology is not fully understood. We evaluated the association between germline polymorphisms in genes important to angiogenesis and subjective reporting of hot flashes.
To examine the relationship among breast cancer, alcohol and folate in the Women's Health Initiative-Observational Study (WHI-OS).
Established models (Penn, Myraid and BRCApro) are useful of estimating the probability that a person has a BRCA mutation. But the value of these models in Chinese population is unclear. The aim of the study is to evaluate the performance of three models on the assisting in pre-test genetic risk counseling.
To investigate the genetic and phenotypic characteristics of MBC in a large and well-characterized population-based series of 108 MBCs from Tuscany (Central Italy) and to evaluate associations between BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation status and clinical-pathological features including breast/ovarian cancer first-degree family history, tumor histology and grade, proliferative activity, estrogen/progesterone receptors (ER/PR) and epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) expression. Results BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations were identified in ten MBCs, in particular, two cases (1.9%) carried BRCA1 and eight cases (7.4%) carried BRCA2 mutations. The same BRCA1 mutation (3347delAG) was detected in two unrelated MBC cases. Three novel BRCA2 pathogenic mutations were found. Statistically significant associations emerged between BRCA2-related tumors and absence of PR expression (P = 0.008), HER2 over-expression (P = 0.002) and high tumor grade (P = 0.005). Conclusions Here, we (i) reported that in our population about 9% of MBC cases are accounted for by BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations; (ii) enlarged the BRCA2 mutational spectrum and (iii) characterized a specific phenotype associated with BRCA2-related MBCs suggestive of aggressive behavior. Overall, our results may have important implications on clinical management for this rare disease.
To evaluate the relationship between equol- and ODMA-producer phenotypes and breast density in premenopausal women in the United States.
To assess family practitioners' attitudes toward and awareness of evidence-based medicine (EBM).
To review the literature about the health benefits of far-infrared sauna (FIRS) use.
I have a 33-year-old patient with hyperthyroidism who is 6 weeks pregnant. Her thyroid function is well controlled with a 5-mg dose of methimazole 3 times daily. She was initially treated with propylthiouracil but was switched to methimazole owing to urticaria. I have heard about birth defects in infants whose mothers used methimazole during pregnancy. How safe is it?
Children frequently present to my rural emergency department with asthma exacerbations. Should I prescribe systemic corticosteroids? If so, which systemic corticosteroid should I prescribe?
To determine primary care physician screening, treatment, and control rates for hypertension and to examine whether type of physician payment model affected these rates.
To describe the number and classes of antihypertensive medications prescribed to patients with type 2 diabetes in community family practices, and to estimate the aggressiveness or "dosage intensity" of prescribing for hypertension in these situations.
To characterize hypertension management in an academic family medicine clinic.
To assess the efficacy of a previsit questionnaire (PVQ), implemented without formal training, that was designed to screen for biomedical and psychosocial health issues and concerns among adolescent patients in a hospital-based primary care clinic, and to examine the subsequent action taken for health issues and concerns identified with the PVQ.
To compare (CA endothelium-dependent vasodilation in response to mental stress in normal and hypertensive subjects.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of cryopreservation on the regenerative capacity of bone marrow stem cells in periodontal defects in dogs.
There is an urgent need to identify the molecular factors involved in osteoblast proliferation and differentiation in order to improve bone formation and treat bone disease. Recent studies demonstrate that many 'axon guidance' molecules play important roles in the development and remodeling of bone through their actions regulating osteoblast or osteoclast differentiation. The expressions and roles in bone tissue of the neuron guidance molecules slit and robo have not been reported previously. The objective of the current study is to investigate the expression and the roles of slit and robo in osteoblastic cells.
A crucial factor when investigating cartilage tissue engineering using mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) is their application in large-animal models and preclinical trials. However, in vitro studies using cells of these model organisms must proceed. Considering that oxygen tension is an important parameter for stem cell culture, we investigated the effect of low oxygen tension during the expansion of ovine MSCs on colony-forming unit-fibroblast (CFU-F) formation, senescence and subsequent chondrogenesis in pellet culture and a collagen I hydrogel which is in clinical use for matrix-associated autologous chondrocyte transplantation (MACT).
To determine the long-term outcome of ischemic stroke patients with concurrent intracranial and extracranial atherosclerosis using magnetic resonance angiography.
Wall shear stress (WSS) is the frictional force exerted by the circulating blood on the endothelium. Low systolic WSS is identified as an atherosclerotic risk factor. Recently, also the importance of diastolic WSS has been described. Still, it is unknown whether diastolic WSS carries similar cardiovascular risk factors compared to systolic WSS.
The presence of an ectopic posterior pituitary gland (EPP) in childhood is associated with isolated GH deficiency (IGHD) and multiple pituitary hormone deficiency. GHD in late adolescence has been defined as a peak GH level &lt;5 microg/l. The aim of this study was to identify the likelihood of persistent GHD in late adolescence in patients with an EPP compared with those with a normally sited posterior pituitary (NPP).
Autoimmune thyroiditis and overt or subclinical hypothyroidism have been associated with increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD).
Fractures are related to falling. Turner syndrome (TS) is associated with hypogonadism, osteoporosis and fractures and has been considered as a syndrome of early ageing. The aim was to study whether fine motor function (FM) and body balance (BB) were impaired and related to genotype, fractures, metabolic variables and hearing.
The type 2 deiodinase (D2)-Thr92Ala polymorphism has been associated with decreased D2 activity in some in vitro experiments but not in others. So far no association between the D2-Thr92Ala polymorphism and serum thyroid hormone levels has been observed in humans, but in a recent study in athyroid patients, it was suggested that patients homozygous for the Ala(92) allele needed higher T4 doses to achieve TSH suppression. We studied the association between the D2-Thr92Ala polymorphism with thyroid hormone levels and T4 dosage, in patients treated for differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) and in a group of patients treated for Hashimoto thyroiditis.
To assess vitamin D status and the influences of race, sun exposure and dietary vitamin D intake on vitamin D levels, and to evaluate two vitamin D repletion regimens in extremely obese patients awaiting bariatric surgery.
To study MGMT expression in pituitary tumours and consider whether MGMT expression is associated with response to temozolomide therapy in aggressive pituitary tumours.
To study the relationship between primary tumour size and the risk of advanced disease features (multifocal or locally invasive disease, lymph-node or distant metastases) in differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC).
To compare cardiovascular risk factors and renal variables in women with SCH and normal women. To study the effects of L-T4 replacement in SCH subjects on these variables and on structural and functional changes in common carotid and brachial arteries.
To evaluate GH and IGF-I control and tumour shrinkage in newly diagnosed patients with acromegaly treated first-line with lanreotide-Autogel (ATG) 120 mg. Design Open, prospective.
Visfatin is a new cytokine that act as an insulin analogue on the insulin receptor and may link obesity and insulin resistance. It was recently shown that visfatin plays a role in plaque destabilization. However, the role of visfatin in atherosclerosis remains to be elucidated. We sought to assess whether plasma visfatin level is independently associated with inflammation, atherosclerosis and acute coronary syndromes (ACS).
To investigate whether cardiovascular risk factors can explain the higher carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) in Indigenous compared with European Australians.
The aim of this study was to use ultrasound (US) to assess any changes in the peripheral nerves of patients with acromegaly 1 year after the first evaluation.
Plasma androgen levels are inversely associated with health in men, the age-related decline of which may result from factors other than ageing per se. This study aimed to determine the effects of demographic, physical and lifestyle factors on age-related androgen status in men.
Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) is associated with mutations throughout the androgen receptor (AR) gene. Different mutations at the same codon have been identified in individuals with various phenotypes suggesting the nature of the codon substituted may influence the degree of AIS. We investigated if phenotype could be predicted by comparing the functionality of AR mutations with those at the same codon of known phenotype.
In pregnancy, a normal result on the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) that follows an abnormal screening glucose challenge test (GCT) is considered a reassuring finding, requiring no further intervention. The obstetrical and metabolic implications of this presentation, however, have not been well studied. Thus, we sought to characterize the obstetrical and postpartum metabolic significance of an abnormal GCT in women with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) on antepartum OGTT.
To determine whether sex steroid hormone concentrations are associated with kidney function or kidney damage in men in the general US population. We hypothesized that lower serum testosterone and E(2) concentrations are associated with CKD. DESIGN PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENTS: Serum sex steroid hormones were measured by electrochemiluminescence immunoassays for 1470 men who attended the morning session of Phase I of the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III). We used two measures of CKD, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) &lt; 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2) calculated using serum creatinine or cystatin C levels and the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study formulae and urinary albumin : creatinine ratio (UACR) &gt;or= 17 mg/g.
To characterize the functional properties of natural autoantibodies capable of preventing in vitro infection by HIV-1, present in normal human serum (NHS), and denoted as IgG-reactive antibodies.
To investigate the molecular phenotype of the AIDS-onset delaying polymorphism in CXCL12beta 3'UTR (rs1801157).
Recognition of the fetus at risk for death or damage in utero, quantifying the risk, balancing fetal risk against the risk of neonatal complications from immaturity and determining optimal time and mode of intervention, is a cornerstone of modern perinatal medicine. Antepartum fetal testing is essential in making these crucial decisions. The art and science of fetal assessment is fluid. In this treatise, the evolution of testing is reviewed, test accuracy results examined and suggestions for future applications are considered.
Emergency contraception in the past two decades had been proven to be effective and well tolerated. Counseling and advance provision and prescription of emergency contraception have been embraced by professional organizations in practice guidelines for its potential to reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions. Has emergency contraception lived up to that promise?
Bipolar technology was introduced in the hysteroscopy field with resectoscopic loops and electrodes adaptable to mini-hysteroscopes. The use of isotonic saline as a distension medium and the proximity of electrodes reduce the risk of electrolyte imbalance and electrical burns. Delivering an electrosurgical device throughout mini-hysteroscopes avoids cervical dilatation, limiting uterine wall damages. The feasibility of outpatient interventions improves clinical outcomes and medical costs avoiding general anaesthesia. This review updates clinical experiences based on bipolar technology and evaluates whether it represents a reliable improvement in operative hysteroscopy.
Severe endometriosis is a leading cause of infertility and pelvic pain and represents one of the most challenging cases in gynecology. Ureteral endometriosis is a rare entity that can lead to ureteral obstruction with subsequent hydroureter, dilatation of the renal pelvis till kidney failure. Laparoscopic management of these lesions is considered the treatment of choice.
The aim of this review was to assess the recent evidence on the effectiveness and complications of tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) and transobturator tape (TOT) procedures for female stress urinary incontinence between January 2008 and March 2009.
Intrauterine adhesions are a rare but significant cause of menstrual disturbance and infertility. Most cases are caused by uterine instrumentation. It is important for clinicians to understand the cause, diagnostic tools and rationale behind treatment.
To examine the significance of insulin resistance in women's health and review methods for diagnosing it.
In view of the spate of recent publications related to mifepristone and some second generation progesterone receptor modulators (PRMs), this appears to be an opportune time to view the clinical status of these compounds.
This review addresses the concept that human leukocyte antigen (HLA) antibody specificity should be determined to HLA epitopes rather than HLA antigens.
The ability of histocompatibility laboratories to define and monitor human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-specific antibodies via highly sensitive immunoassays has been a major contributing factor in the development of desensitization protocols for HLA-incompatible transplants. This review will focus on the laboratory's role in desensitization and the types of tests needed for determining the specificity and strength of antibodies to donor HLA pretransplant, during treatment, and after transplant.
The unique properties of dendritic cells (DC) lend themselves to the modulation of antigen-specific immune responses, including allograft rejection. Central to their modulatory function is the capacity of DC to polarize naïve T cells towards a regulatory phenotype and to expand existing regulatory T cells (Treg). This review draws on current understanding of the interaction between these critical cell types to evaluate prospects for the use of DC as a therapeutic regimen.
Personalized immunosuppressive therapy on the basis of the recognition of individual alloreactive and anti-infectious immune responses is a major goal in clinical transplantation. It requires the development of reliable assays for quantification of T-cell responses. Here, we review recent findings in the field of T-cell immune monitoring focusing on candidate assays with clinical utility for predicting outcome in kidney transplantation.
Here, we elaborate on one of the challenges in the current era of organ transplantation: to offer suitable organs to highly sensitized patients. Desensitization protocols and the use of an acceptable mismatch program are discussed.
Disparities in minor histocompatibility antigens between HLA-matched organ and hematopoietic stem cell donors and recipients create the risks of graft failure and graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) respectively. A decade ago, technical advances combined with genomic information resulted in the identification of the chemical nature of the first series of minor histocompatibility antigens, facilitating their molecular typing. A new era of research had begun in exploring the role of minor histocompatibility antigens in physiological and nonphysiological settings. Here we summarize, to the best of our knowledge, human studies on the relevance of minor histocompatibility antigens in solid organ transplantation with a main focus on renal allografting.
This review is intended to introduce recent advances in the research surrounding extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) with a focus on how apoptotic cells modulate antigen-presenting cells and induce regulatory T cells, given that ECP therapy induces apoptosis of leukocytes collected through leukapheresis.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are potential therapeutic tools in averting transplant rejection and promoting lifelong tolerance. However, Tregs can be subverted by inflammatory conditions, resulting in a T helper 17 (Th17) cell response. This review looks at the relationship between Tregs and Th17 cells.
Donor reactive regulatory T cells (Treg) play an important role in tolerance induction and maintenance in experimental transplant models. In this review we focus on the formation of the donor reactive Treg pool and explore the potential of these cells for therapeutic application in clinical transplantation.
Leflunomide has been used off-label in renal transplantation because of the attractive combination of antiviral and immunosuppressive effects. This study intends to review the clinical applications of leflunomide with interest to transplantation.
The purpose of this review is to improve the basis upon which advice on pregnancy is given to renal transplant recipients in the reproductive age group. The review attempts to impart up-to-date evidence-based information on the predictable outcome and the risk of pregnancy after kidney transplantation.
Exposure to noninherited maternal antigens (NIMAs) in fetal and neonatal life has life-long immunological consequences. Although there is a plethora of evidence of effects of mother on the immune responses of her offspring, there is very little knowledge available on how exposure to NIMA can result in either tolerance or sensitization. Understanding the mechanism of NIMA effects will impact different fields of immunology including transplantation, autoimmunity, and tumor immunotherapy.
In a seminal paper in 2006, Yamanaka and coworkers reported the reprogramming of terminally differentiated murine cells to a pluripotent state, largely indistinguishable from conventional embryonic stem cells. The introduction of defined transcription factors via retroviral transduction revealed, in principle, how pluripotency, once thought to be lost at an early stage of embryogenesis, could be reawakened in adulthood.
New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is a serious complication of organ transplantation. Data from kidney transplant studies show that NODAT is a strong independent predictor of graft failure and cardiovascular mortality. This article reviews NODAT in context of some of the recent data on definition, incidence, risk factors, genetics, and the impact on graft survival and cardiovascular events.
The role of regulatory T cells (Treg) in peripheral tolerance has been studied extensively in transplantation research. Recently, mast cells have been shown to play an indispensable role in allograft tolerance. The purpose of this review is to inform the reader on the current standings of the role of mast cells in dominant tolerance with an emphasis on the interaction of mast cells with Treg.
Facial transplantation has become a clinical reality, with the successful completion of five procedures to date in France, China, and most recently the United States. The technical and immunological obstacles associated with this procedure have largely been overcome. There is ongoing debate, however, regarding the ethical implications of the procedure.
To review the accuracy and effectiveness of current technology available for computer-aided maxillofacial surgery.
Timely recognition of vascular compromise of free flaps is crucial to salvaging failing flaps. This review summarizes the most recent available literature about free flap monitoring over the period of 2008-2009. Novel techniques are discussed.
In the current era of organ-preservation therapies, surgical salvage and reconstruction of defects following ablation of mucosa and soft tissue in the head and neck is extremely challenging because of the toxic effects of chemoradiation and intensive radiotherapy on wounds. The anatomical, physiological and immunological properties of the gastro-omental flap make it an ideal reconstructive technique in head and neck surgery.
This article reviews the submental island flap, focusing on its relevant surgical anatomy, surgical technique, and recent applications in head and neck reconstruction.
Cancer of the head and neck area is common worldwide. Rehabilitation of cancer patients can be done using a surgical and/or a prosthetic approach. This review presents the current trends in prosthetic rehabilitation of the head and neck area.
Journal articles relevant to the diagnosis and treatment of velopharyngeal insufficiency were reviewed. All studies ascertained by PubMed search were included.
Patients commonly present to the otolaryngologist for management of benign facial lesions. It is important to be able to both recognize these lesions and offer patients the most effective therapies currently available. Advances in the understanding and management of three of the more common benign skin lesions affecting the face will be addressed in this review, with a particular emphasis on the most current therapeutic options for each lesion.
This article reviews the recent literature on functional rhinoplasty for the most important contributions in the field.
This study is aimed towards clinicians involved in the rapidly developing field of hair restoration. We provide a review of recent literature on this topic.
Facial fracture management is often complex and demanding, particularly within the pediatric population. Although facial fractures in this group are uncommon relative to their adult counterparts, a thorough understanding of issues relevant to pediatric facial fracture management is critical to optimal long-term success.
The success of any physician-patient interaction is based on good communication. This requires the physician to be a careful listener with clinical acumen that extends beyond the typical borders of medical illness. For the plastic surgeon, the skill set must include an ability to understand the psychological motivations of the patient for the given treatment and must allow the surgeon to put himself into the position of the patient for this acceptance. Additionally, the surgeon must decide whether the patient is a good physiological candidate for surgery.
The article reviews literature on three distinct Asian facial aesthetic surgical procedures: Asian upper blepharoplasty, Asian augmentation rhinoplasty, and Asian skeletal facial contouring, which are considered to be unique in facial aesthetic procedures among Asians.
To evaluate oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) and the burden of disease of dermatological patients with oral mucosal diseases.
Melanocytes or stem cells thereof residing in the outer root sheath (ORS) of hair follicles might be used to repigment skin.
To evaluate the efficacy of a two-compound product of calcipotriol plus betamethasone dipropionate ointment on nail psoriasis in an open-label study.
To evaluate the risk of immediate and delayed allergic reactions to repeated and maximized applications (RMA) of oat-containing cosmetics and oat extracts and their tolerance in cereal-sensitized atopic adults.
To provide an in-depth understanding of the impact of skin disease on different aspects of adolescents' health-related quality of life (HRQoL).
To determine whether the combination of narrow-band ultraviolet B (NB-UVB) phototherapy and efalizumab could improve the therapeutic efficacy of efalizumab alone in moderate to severe psoriasis. methods: Ten patients underwent a treatment cycle with a whole-body NB-UVB phototherapy (3 sessions a week) during the first 4 weeks of a 6-month treatment with efalizumab at 1 mg/kg body weight/week. In addition, one of two similar plaques, selected for each patient, was shielded during phototherapy.
Whole body vibration (WBV) training is a new approach which is currently discussed in the context of reducing the risk of osteoporotic fractures. The study was undertaken to determine the effect of one-year WBV exercise on bone mineral density (BMD) and the number of falls.
The aim of this study was to assess the haemodynamic effects of tri-iodothyronine (T3) and methylprednisolone in potential heart donors.
The aim of this analysis was to examine the influence of different in-cath-lab antiplatelet regimens for the primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) on all-cause mortality.
The aim of this study involves the early identification, among apparently healthy individuals, of those at high risk for sudden cardiac death. We tested the hypothesis that individuals who respond to mild mental stress in preparation for exercise test with the largest heart rate increases might be at highest risk.
Athletic activity is associated with electrocardiographic T-wave inversions in some adults, resembling those observed in cardiomyopathy. The prevalence and significance of T-wave inversions in adolescent athletes, the group most vulnerable to exercise-related sudden death from cardiomyopathy, is unknown.
Contrast-enhanced second harmonic Doppler (ED) is a new ultrasound modality that increases the feasibility of recording blood flow velocity (BFV) in the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) using a transthoracic approach. Blood flow velocity convective acceleration is a reliable marker of coronary stenosis and can be used to assess the percentage area reduction at the stenosis site by applying the continuity equation. To detect, locate, and assess the severity of significant stenosis throughout the LAD by means of an ED recording of BFV acceleration at the stenosis site.
To examine life-long weight trajectories behind the 'obesity paradox', and whether cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk contributes.
The metabolic pathways leading to the formation of prasugrel and clopidogrel active metabolites differ. We hypothesized that decreased CYP2C19 activity affects the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic response to clopidogrel but not prasugrel.
To examine the extent of platelet inhibition by prasugrel vs. clopidogrel in a TRITON-TIMI 38 substudy.
There are a large number of common genetic variants that have been robustly associated with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, or triglyceride concentrations. The majority of these have been identified or confirmed in recent genome-wide association studies, but few studies have assessed the combined effect of known lipid variants. We hypothesized that these variants would influence both the need for interventions and myocardial infarction (MI) outcomes. We aimed to estimate combined effects of proven SNPs on LDL, HDL, and triglyceride concentrations and MI history in a representative older population.
To assess the NYHA class and the quality of life (QoL) scores after percutaneous aortic valve implantation (PAVI) with the 18-Fr CoreValve prosthesis.
To determine whether the magnitude of post-acute myocardial infarction (AMI) sympathetic activation is greater in women (F-AMI) than men (M-AMI).
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a major public health problem. The objective of this study is to explore the effects of a dual dispatch early defibrillation programme.
L-ascorbic acid (LAA) modifies the in vitro growth of leukemic cells from approximately 50% of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). To test the hypothesis that depletion of LAA, alternating with supplementation to prevent scurvy, would provide therapeutic benefit, a single-arm pilot trial was conducted (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00329498). Experimental results: During depletion phase, patients with refractory AML or MDS were placed on a diet deficient in LAA; during supplementation phase, patients received daily intravenous administration of LAA. An in vitro assay was performed pretherapy for LAA sensitivity of leukemic cells from individual patients.
Knowledge of health related quality of life of haematological patients is limited. This study aimed at investigating the prevalence and predictors of symptoms and problems in a representative sample of haematological patients in Denmark.
Nursing in 'live islands' and routine high dose intravenous immunoglobulins after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation were abandoned by many teams in view of limited evidence and high costs.
To review a hierarchy of interventions for OA in clinical practice, and compare it with the Strength of Recommendation (SOR) proposed by the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI).
To summarize current data concerning new opportunities to improve the treatment of HIV-infected children.
This review outlines the involvement of histamine in the pathogenesis of tissue remodeling in a variety of organs, and presents the evidence for the effect of antihistamines on this process. Furthermore, this review also discusses antihistamines as an intervention strategy in tissue remodeling.
To assess the usefulness and tolerability of systematically switching glaucoma patients from latanoprost 0.005% and timolol 0.5% (Lat + Tim) to a fixed combination of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% (TTFC), and to record the effects of this switch on tear-film break-up time (TBUT).
To determine the nature, sources, prevalence, and consequences of distress and burnout among genetics professionals.
The goal of this project was to assess genetic/genomic content in electronic health records.
To determine adherence to the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines for thyroid screening in children with Down syndrome among primary care providers in the states of Oklahoma and Nebraska.
To investigate the correlation of the urinary glucose tetrasaccharide, Glcalpha1-6Glcalpha1-4Glcalpha1-4Glc, (Glc4) with skeletal muscle glycogen content and the long-term clinical response to enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant human acid alpha glucosidase in infantile Pompe disease.
Mitochondrial disorders constitute a group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous diseases for which molecular diagnosis has been a challenge. The current procedures for diagnosis of mitochondrial DNA deletion and depletion syndromes based on Southern analysis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction are particularly inefficient for determining important parameters of deletion endpoints and percent heteroplasmy. We have developed an improved approach for routine analyses of these disorders in a clinical laboratory.
The present paper aims at determining the characteristics of AAlPP and evaluating its severity factors.
To evaluate the effect of oral drotaverine with mefenamic acid on pain perception during hysteroscopy and endometrial biopsy and to compare it with that of paracervical block using 1% lignocaine and with that of intravenous sedation using diazepam with pentazocine.
To determine if EE/CA and EE/CA plus metformin treatment have any effect on adhesion molecules in cases with PCOS.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with numerous pulmonary manifestations. However, the inflammatory mechanism remains undetermined. We studied the features of inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and biopsy lung tissue from patients with RA-associated lung disease.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to examine changes in personality from late pregnancy to early motherhood in primiparas having vaginal or caesarean deliveries.
This paper is a report of a study to determine the impact of the preceptor coaching component of a reflective contextual learning intervention on novice nurses' critical thinking skills during the first 6 months of their practice.
This article is a report of a study exploring how the role of the community matron is progressing and any barriers or facilitators to performing the role.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to explore strategies for retaining nurses and their implications for the primary and community care nursing workforce.
This paper presents an integrative literature review conducted to describe the utility of the objective structured clinical evaluation (OSCE) as a strategy of measuring one form of clinical competence in nursing.
This paper is a report of a concept analysis of fatigue in children with long-term conditions.
This paper is a presentation of issues that arise when conducting research with women from vulnerable populations.
This paper is a report of a literature review of the evidence regarding outcomes experienced by severely mentally ill individuals hospitalized in general medical-surgical settings for non-psychiatric conditions.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to compare middle-aged female family caregivers and non-caregivers in terms of: (a) differences in quality of life and health-promoting lifestyle behaviors; and (b) the relationship between health-promoting lifestyle behaviors and quality of life.
The aim of the paper is to explain how poetry reading can be used to teach interpretive analysis of qualitative data.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to determine the perceptions and experiences of coitus interruptus as a contraceptive method used by married women in Turkey.
This paper is an exploration of the concepts of advocacy and paternalism in nursing and discusses the thin line between the two.
In this paper we present a critical analysis of the debate surrounding elective caesarean section using the Social Construction of Technology perspective as a framework of analysis.
The purpose of this study was to use a province-wide workplace incident reporting system to calculate rates and identify risk factors for violence in the British Columbia healthcare industry by occupational groups, including nursing.
This article is a report of a study of the impact of caring for abused women on nurses' professional and personal life experiences.
The aim of the study was to compare costs and consequences for an integrated care pathway intervention group with those of a usual care group for patients admitted with hip fracture.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to examine migrant nurses' perceptions and attitudes of integration into the perioperative setting.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to describe what children and adolescents who have type 1 diabetes know and want to know about the disease.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to describe people's experiences, and meanings of these, while living with irritable bowel syndrome.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to evaluate the effects of behaviour modification on anthropometric indices and to explore if behaviour modification could improve eating behaviour in adolescents.
This paper is a report of a study conducted to examine factors (severity and duration of the disease, credible authority, social support, education) that may influence the level of uncertainty and stress in patients having peritoneal dialysis.
Unipolar depression is a complex illness with an ever increasing number of pharmacological treatments available. As the number of available medication options increases, so does the potential for polypharmacy, a practice with possible complications. Such complications include a greater number of side effects with the initiation of additional medications and the consequences of drug-drug interactions. Therefore, it is important to understand the effects of polypharmacy on efficacy of treatment as well as whether polypharmacy is instituted after appropriate initial monotherapy trials. This study attempts to answer these questions.
To review recent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) research findings in MDD while considering the potential influence of key clinical and demographic variables.
To characterize animals with microchips entering animal shelters and the process used to find owners.
To determine neurologic indications associated with abnormal results for computed tomography (CT) imaging of the head of horses affected by neurologic disorders.
Single incision laparoscopic procedures are presumed to be as a step towards pure natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery. However, loss of requirement of any perforation of visceral organ and endoscopic equipment make this technique more popular and easily performable. Herein we report two splenectomy cases where single incision surgery (SILS) technique was performed.
The aim of this study was to analyze survival outcomes and disease recurrence for LDLT and DDLT for ESLD secondary to PSC.
To assess how well clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) integrate evidence on patient preferences compared with that on treatment effectiveness.
This study aimed to examine the relationships between acculturation and CRC screening among older Mexican, Puerto-Rican and Cuban adults.
To evaluate the effect of PP on mortality among very elderly hospitalized patients.
To describe internal medicine residents' and program directors' perceptions regarding ambulatory training duration, alternative ambulatory training models, and factors important for ambulatory education.
To evaluate the effectiveness of computerized prescribing alerts, with or without physician-led group educational sessions, to reduce the prescribing of heavily marketed hypnotic medications.
We examined whether addressing pain at a primary care visit acts as a competing demand in decisions to intensify blood pressure (BP) medications for diabetic patients with an elevated BP.
To validate a new measure of self-management support and to characterize performance, including comparisons across chronic conditions.
To identify determinants of clinicians' hospice discussions and the impact of such discussions on hospice use.
The present study, using a decision analysis, evaluates whether an exercise tolerance test (ETT) is indicated before initiating regular physical activity to reduce the risk of sudden death during exercise training.
To describe patterns of health insurance coverage for adults with non-dialysis dependent CKD and to examine risk factors for progression of CKD to ESRD and management of hypertension among those lacking insurance.
To better understand the impact of a clinical-skills curriculum in the pre-clinical setting on student performance.
We compared the quality of diabetes primary care delivered by resident physicians in either a private academic health care system (AHS) or its affiliated VA health care system.
To evaluate factors self-reported by internal medicine residents nationally as important to their career decisions.
Using clinical risk factors with a new tool from the World Health Organization (FRAX) and recommendations from the National Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF), we evaluated fracture risk and osteoporosis treatment in a US cohort.
To describe a network model of a cooperative genetic landscape in gliomas and to evaluate its clinical relevance.
To assess whether coselection of EGFR gains on 7p12 and monosomy 10 in glioblastomas promotes tumorigenic epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling through loss of the annexin A7 (ANXA7) gene on 10q21.1-q21.2 and whether ANXA7 acts as a tumor suppressor gene by regulating EGFR in glioblastomas.
To measure the frequency of incidentally discovered PFO closure during cardiothoracic surgery and determine its perioperative and long-term impact.
To assess risk of ovarian cancer in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women receiving different hormone therapies.
Modulated imaging is a new modality capable of wide-field, spatially resolved measurement of in vivo optical properties. Based on spatial light modulation, the method is inexpensive, non-contact, and allows spatial mapping of tissue absorption and reduced scattering coefficients at any wavelength between 450 and 1,100 nm. Currently, clinicians rely on qualitative visual inspection to guide parameter selection for laser-based tattoo removal. MI provides quantitative measurements of multi-colored tattooed skin which may help guide treatment and objectively assess response.
Nonablative fractional lasers are well recognized for rejuvenating photoaged skin. We previously reported favorable outcomes with short follow-up after the use of 1,440-nm Nd:YAG laser energy used alone or in combination with a 1,320-nm laser to effect rejuvenation and wrinkle reduction. We now report longer follow-up data.
Erbium lasers are potential tools to remove caries and dental hard tissue but bond strengths of composites to those preparations are reported to be lower than conventional methods. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of mechanical excavation and/or chemical alteration on bond strength of composites to laser irradiated enamel and dentin.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are promising for use in regenerative medicine. Cytostatics can decrease, but low-power laser irradiation (LPLI) can increase the growth of MSCs. The interaction of LPLI, MSCs and cytostatics is not known. This study investigated the effect of four cytostatics (carboplatin, cytarabine, paclitaxel, vincristine), LPLI, and combination of a cytostatic drug and LPLI on murine MSCs (mMSCs).
Port wine stains (PWS) are heterogeneous vascular malformations that can be treated with vascular-selective pulsed dye lasers (PDL). Hypertrophic PWS, especially in adults, are consistently less responsive to PDL. Furthermore, many PWS that respond well initially to PDL treatment may reach a response plateau, becoming unresponsive to further PDL treatments, a phenomenon termed "treatment resistance." Based on the theory of selective photothermolysis, vessels in such lesions may also be specifically targeted with a 755 nm laser that has selectivity for deoxyhemoglobin as well as oxyhemoglobin and increased depth of skin penetration.
Laser radiation (1,210 nm) has been previously shown to be capable of selective photothermolysis of adipose tissue in vitro when applied non-invasively. The objective of this pilot study was to evaluate the in vivo effects of this laser in human subjects.
Basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) have supporting vasculature that could serve as a target for 595 nm pulsed dye laser (PDL). The objective of this study was to determine the effect of repeated PDL treatments on BCCs of superficial and nodular subtypes and of varying diameters.
Port wine stains are congenital low-flow vascular malformations of the skin. Unlike hemangiomas, PWS do not involute with time, but rather if left untreated can hypertrophy and develop nodularity. Laser therapy of PWS particularly with pulsed-dye lasers, is a safe, well-established treatment that is successful in the majority of patients, especially for younger patients. Patients that fail to receive treatment early in life may subsequent develop lesions more likely to progress.
We tested the hypothesis that combined 660 and 890 nm LED phototherapy will promote healing of diabetic ulcers that failed to respond to other forms of treatment.
In sepsis, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) contributes to endothelial barrier breakdown. The involvement of Rho A/rho kinase signaling has recently been challenged. Here, we tested the role of cAMP and Rac 1 signaling.
Variation in expression of adhesion molecules plays a key role in regulating leukocyte behavior, but the contribution of fluid shear to these interactions cannot be ignored. Here, we dissected the effects of each of these factors on leukocyte behavior in different venular regions.
The aim of this study was to examine the relationship of retinal vascular caliber with diabetes and impaired fasting glucose (IFG) in a multiethnic Asian population.
To assess the efficacy of CAB association on acromegalics with high IGF-I on stable long-acting release octreotide (OCT-LAR) (30 mg/28 days).
It was the aim of this study to assess the efficacy and safety of temozolomide in patients with malignant DET.
To develop and validate a scale that is applicable in Belgium to investigate the aspects of female patients' satisfaction with urodynamic consultation, and to use it to measure the impact of a detailed explanatory leaflet on their satisfaction.
To evaluate the effect of familial aggregation on the children with PNE by evaluating nocturnal urine output, bladder, and arouse function.
We tested cardiovascular and visceromotor reflex (VMR) responses to urinary bladder distension (UBD) in urethane anesthetized rats to see if it can replicate the response pattern and the inhibition of bladder nociceptive transmission by analgesics seen in isoflurane anesthetized animals.
Valid and reliable questionnaires must be used to accurately assess patients' satisfaction with overactive bladder (OAB) treatment. This study evaluated the reliability and validity of the OAB Satisfaction with Treatment Questionnaire (OAB-SAT-q).
To determine the predictive values and specificity of clinical and neurophysiologic testing of the penilo-cavernosus reflex.
Reactive nitrogen and oxygen species (RNOS) likely play a role in the development of bladder dysfunction related to bladder outlet obstruction. Antioxidants protect against these free radicals. The aim of our study was to investigate the effect of bladder outlet obstruction on the endogenous antioxidant status of the bladder and to correlate this to bladder structure and function.
Based on a prior study, over 60% of the average radiation dose per cystourethrography (CU) originated from lateral radiograph images (RI). This analysis focuses on the feasibility of decreasing the number of RI without compromising study interpretation.
To review the quality of urodynamic traces collected as part of a multi-center Phase II drug trial of a medication for overactive bladder (OAB), in order to assess adherence to the Good Urodynamic Practice (GUP) guidelines. To assess inter-rater reliability (IRR) for the numerical cystometrogram variables, and for the diagnosis of detrusor overactivity (DO).
Pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) has Level A evidence to treat female urinary incontinence (UI). Recently, indirect training of the pelvic floor muscles (PFM) via the transversus abdominis muscle (TrA) has been suggested as a new method to treat UI. The aim of this article is to discuss whether there is evidence for a synergistic co-contraction between TrA and PFM in women with UI, whether TrA contraction is as effective, or more effective than PFMT in treating UI and whether there is evidence to recommend TrA training as an intervention strategy.
To compare cutaneous sensory thresholds, habituation to somatic stimuli, and tendency towards catastrophic reaction to painful stimuli in patients with Painful Bladder Syndrome (PBS) to controls without PBS.
The aim of the current study was to evaluate the retest reliability of repeated intravaginal surface electromyography (surface EMG) of the pelvic floor muscles in healthy women, who were able to perform correct pelvic floor muscle contractions.
To compare the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-UI SF) with the Incontinence Severity Index (ISI), and to propose intervals for four severity levels of ICIQ-UI SF.
The importance of the T- and L-type Ca(2+) channels on the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor-mediated contraction of guinea-pig vas deferens was investigated in relation to the SK and BK channels.
To identify the different factors contributing to nocturia in a clinical setting.
To examine the prevalence and mechanism of urinary dysfunction in GBS.
The aim of this study was to determine if two different whole body vibration, sinusoidal vibration (SV) and stochastic resonance vibration (SRV), using various intensities lead to a reactive activation of pelvic floor muscles.
Lidocaine produces analgesia by inhibiting excitation of nerve endings or blocking impulse conduction in peripheral nerves. This study was performed to determine whether intrathecal or intravesical administration of lidocaine prior, or subsequent, to induction of chemical cystitis in rats would block referred mechanical hyperalgesia.
To examine the efficacy of using fibrin glue (FG) as an interpositioning layer in the repair of complicated vesioovaginal fistulae (VVFe) as compared to the classical repair using martius flaps (Ml').
To study the effect of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) as a neuroprotective agent in male and female rat urinary bladders subjected to anoxia-glucopenia and reperfusion (A/G-R) damage.
The present study was conducted to assess the impact of urinary incontinence on the psychological burden of family caregivers providing care to disabled family members with urinary incontinence.
To describe the temporal relationship between increases in lower urinary tract (LUT) sensation and changes in detrusor and/or urethral pressures measured in real time.
We assessed the lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and their association with different clinical parameters.
Parkinson's disease (PD) affects the nigrostriatal projections leading to micturition disturbance in most cases. Overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms such as urinary urgency or urgent urinary incontinence are common amongst PD patients. Several urodynamic studies have revealed that detrusor overactivity causes OAB symptoms in PD patients. We assert that striatal dysfunction might contribute to the pathogenesis of detrusor overactivity in PD patients. However, the role of the striatum in bladder contraction remains unclear.
To investigate the concentration and activity of RhoA in detrusor and urothelium, as well as the effects of a Rho-kinase inhibitor, Y-27632 [(+)-(R)-trans-4-(1-aminoethyl)-N-(4-pyridyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide dihydrochloride], on contraction of the pig urinary bladder.
Urinary incontinence is a common symptom in many diseases as well as in general population. To measure the impact of urinary incontinence (UI) on individual's quality of life the English short form International Consultation on Incontinence questionnaire (ICIQ-UI Short Form) has been developed, which consists of three scored and one self-diagnostic question. Our aim was to translate the ICIQ-UI Short Form into Slovene, re-validate it, and test the diagnostic value of the questionnaire in determining the type of UI.
To determine whether C afferents can modify the gating of the Adelta micturition reflex in order to identify the neuronal site of interaction of the two afferent systems.
To identify the relationship between nocturnal AVP deficiency, nocturnal polyuria (NP), and low urinary osmolality in children suffering of primary monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis (NE).
To evaluate the long term outcome, to review the complication ratio and to analyze predicting factors of catheterizable continent vesicostomy in an adult population. To deduct a proper patient counseling policy.
Reflex bladder excitation has been demonstrated by stimulation of the pudendal nerve and several of its distal branches. However, excitation parameters have not been consistent and the relationship to anatomical locations within the urethra has not been fully investigated. An improved understanding of the lower urinary tract neurophysiology will improve human studies and neuroprosthetic device development.
Oral hormone replacement therapy (HRT) based on estradiol-17beta (E2), E2 esters or conjugated equine estrogens gives rise to huge amounts of circulating estrone (E1) as a result of the first liver pass. E1 is an estrogen (ER) receptor agonist but has also been reported to act as a partial E2 antagonist in vitro. Our aim was to investigate the influence of circulating estrogens on estrogen sensitivity of urogenital tissue collagen turnover in patients with stress urinary incontinence (SUI) and in urologically healthy women, with and without HRT, in view of possible effects of E1 as a partial E2 antagonist.
Incontinent ileovesicostomy was popularized in the mid-1990s as a surgical option for patients with neurogenic voiding dysfunction who lack the dexterity to perform clean catheterization. There are several case series in the literature, but few studies look at the long-term outcomes and complications associated with this procedure.
To investigate possible mechanisms of action of THC-002 (HARNCARE), a galenical produced from the traditional Chinese herbal mixture Ba-Wei-Die-Huang-Wan, which has been reported to improve lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in patients.
Consumption of carbonated soft drinks is independently associated with the development of overactive bladder (OR 1.41, 95% Cl 1.02-1.95). We have shown previously that artificial sweeteners, present in carbonated soft drinks, enhanced detrusor muscle contraction. Other constituents of soft drinks are preservatives and antioxidants, we evaluated the effects of two of these, ascorbic acid and citric acid, on the contractile response of isolated rat bladder muscle strips.
To assess the effects of open retropubic colposuspension for the treatment of urinary incontinence.
To identify any difference in gene expression of the descending colonic mucosa between smoking and never-smoking CD patients (and controls) by determining genetic expression profiles from microarray analysis.
To analyze the effects of ICO on metabolic and fluid control in high and high-average transport diabetic patients on continuous ambulatory PD (CAPD).
To investigate in patients on automated PD (APD) with a fast transport pattern whether there is a glucose-sparing advantage to replacing 7.5% icodextrin (ICO) during the long dwell with a mixed crystalloid and colloid PD fluid (bimodal UF) in an attempt to promote daytime UF and sodium removal while diminishing the glucose strength of the dialysate at night.
To examine the effects of twice-daily icodextrin administration on blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy in peritoneal dialysis patients with hypervolemia and ultrafiltration failure.
End-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients have an increased risk of atherosclerotic complications. In both hemodialysis (HD) patients and the general population, it has become evident that inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic complications. Oral and dental problems in ESRD patients could be an important source of inflammation, thus treatment of these problems is important to protect these patients from potential infections. The decayed, missing, and filled teeth (DMFT) index is an indicator of oral and dental health status. Our aim was to analyze and compare salivary flow rate (SFR), salivary pH (SpH), salivary buffering capacity (SBC), and DMFT index and plaque index (PI) values in PD patients to HD patients and healthy controls (C) and establish the relationship between these parameters and C-reactive protein (CRP).
Personality traits underlie maladaptive behaviors, and cognitive and emotional disturbances that contribute to major preventable causes of global disease burden. This study examines detailed personality profiles of underweight, normal, and overweight individuals to provide insights into the causes and treatments of abnormal weight.
To examine whether personality traits are related to all-cause mortality in a general adult population in Scotland.
To test whether the level of hostility predicted the rate of cognitive decline in a community of older blacks and whites and whether the association varied as a function of race.
To examine associations between intelligence and psychomotor coordination in childhood and risk of psychological distress, poorer self-rated health, and obesity in adulthood. To investigate whether psychomotor coordination as a potential marker of the construct "system integrity" explains associations between intelligence and these outcomes.
Exposure to prenatal stress may affect neurodevelopment of the fetus, but whether this exposure increases the risk of cerebral palsy (CP) later in life is unknown. We aimed to examine the association between maternal bereavement during the prenatal time period and CP in childhood.
To evaluate the relationship between posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and nocturnal blood pressure (BP) dipping in young adult African Americans (AAs). PTSD is associated with physical illnesses including cardiovascular conditions. Sleep disturbances related to heightened arousal likely contribute to physical health risk; however, this possibility has not been studied. The studies that have found a relationship between PTSD and hypertension (HTN) have substantial representation of AAs. AAs have elevated rates of HTN and are more likely to exhibit an absence of the normal "dip" of BP at night. Nocturnal BP "nondipping" is an established risk factor for HTN and its cardiovascular complications. Nocturnal BP nondipping and sleep disturbances of PTSD have both been linked to sympathetic nervous system function.
To examine associations of maternal lifetime trauma and related psychological symptoms in the perinatal period with infant cardiorespiratory reactivity and behavioral distress in response to a laboratory stressor, using a novel advanced system recently adapted for infants.
To examine whether the relationship of hostility (HOST) to fasting glucose indices is moderated by sex and race. HOST has been associated with abnormalities in glucose metabolism. Prior studies suggested that this association may be more prevalent in women and in African American (AA) individuals.
To determine whether chronic social stress can desensitize leukocytes to normal physiologic regulation by endogenous glucocorticoids.
To examine the association of anxiety with incident dementia and cognitive impairment not dementia (CIND).
To explore the underlying physiology of hostility (HOST) and to test the hypothesis that HOST has a greater impact on fasting glucose in African American (AA) women than it does on AA men or white men or women, using an intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) and the minimal model of glucose kinetics.
To compare the risk for cardiovascular mortality between bipolar I and bipolar II subtypes and determine correlates of cardiovascular mortality. Bipolar disorder conveys an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality.
To assess prospectively the impact of psychiatric disorders on risk for exacerbations. The course of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is punctuated by acute exacerbations. Although anxiety and mood disorders are common in patients with COPD, no studies have assessed prospectively the association between these disorders and exacerbations.
To test the hypothesis that gut stimulation provokes autonomic arousal via activation of regional cerebral cortices. How the human brain processes interoceptive signals and forms initial autonomic arousal is one of the key questions to be answered in research on emotion.
The colon cancer laparoscopic or open resection (COLOR) trial is an international, randomised controlled trial comparing outcomes of open and laparoscopic surgery for colon cancer. The main purpose of this study was to determine representability by comparing included and nonincluded patients in the participating Swedish centres.
Laparoscopic surgery in pregnancy remains debated, especially in cases of suspected appendicitis. Cases of suspected appendicitis treated by the laparoscopic approach in a single institution over a 10-year period were reviewed (1997-2007). The objectives were to evaluate the immediate complications of the procedure and the outcome of pregnancies including foetal loss and preterm delivery.
The major barrier to transumbilical endoscopic surgery is external interference between the instrument handles around the umbilicus. We describe technique of totally transumbilical endoscopic cholecystectomy using improved instruments.
Postoperative wound complications are minimized after laparoscopic ventral hernia repair (LVHR) while maintaining low recurrence rates and acceptable morbidity. The purpose of this study is to evaluate efficacy and safety of LVHR in patients after organ transplantation in comparison to a large cohort of nontransplantation patients after LVHR.
The aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of laparoscopic surgery with those of open resection in patients with extraperitoneal rectal cancer.
To compare the efficacy of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) and BioEnterics intragastric balloon (BIB) to lose weight and comorbidities after 12 months of follow-up before a more invasive bariatric procedure.
Laparoscopic wedge resection using a linear stapler is widely accepted as a treatment for gastric submucosal tumor (SMT). Although this surgery is simple, it can lead to excessive normal tissue removal. To avoid the latter, we have introduced endoscopic full-thickness resection with laparoscopic assistance, known as laparoscopy-assisted endoscopic full-thickness resection (LAEFR). Herein, we present the preliminary results of LAEFR for gastric SMT patients.
We sought to determine whether the association between family history, a surrogate for genetic predisposition, and diabetes was modified by any known diabetes risk factors and if these relationships were constant across different ethnic groups.
The objective of this study was to examine whether one-step self-etching adhesives (1-SEAs) really have an advantage over multistep systems.
To investigate the effect of 0.2% and 2% chlorhexidine (CHX) used as a therapeutic primer on the long-term bond strengths of two etch-and-rinse adhesive systems.
To investigate the micromechanics and damage accumulation of the enamel/adhesive interface using sub-modelling and element deactivation methods.
The present study was undertaken to determine the content and the constituent elements of inorganic fillers as well as the radiopacity of 15 recently introduced bonding agents and to compare their radiodensities with those of enamel and dentin by using a transmission photodensitometer.
This study evaluated the resin-dentin microtensile bond strength (microTBS) of ethanol/water- (Single Bond, [SB] 3M ESPE), ethanol- (Optibond Solo Plus, [OP] Kerr) and acetone-based (One-Step, [OS] Bisco) two-step etch-and-rinse adhesives in the presence or absence of their respective solvents to dry and wet dentin. The ultimate tensile strength (UTS) and the degree of conversion (DC) of the materials were also evaluated.
The objective of this in vitro study was to compare the degree of microleakage of composite restorations performed by lasers and conventional drills associated with two adhesive systems.
This study evaluated the effect of surface treatments of the prepolymerized adhesive layer in the immediate dentin sealing technique (IDS) on the microtensile bond strength of two-step etch-and-rinse adhesive systems.
To compare the short- and long-term sealing ability of root canal fillings consisting of AH-26 and laterally compacted gutta-percha in combination with a self-etching dentin bonding system and the Epiphany-Resilon system.
To test the feasibility of the FOT test in preschool children and to compare the results to the commonly used spirometry before and after the administration of bronchodilator therapy.
To evaluate the migratory capacity and efficacy of NTF-SC in animal models of Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
To re-analyze previously reported datafrom different studies. This retrospective analysis of the type 2 diabetes subpopulation analyzed the expected benefit and characterized the significance of baseline A1c in the determination of the expected clinical outcome.
To evaluate the short-term outcome of infants born with symptomatic CDH and to correlate demographic and clinical parameters with short-term outcome.
To assess the current status of diagnosis and treatment of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures in Israeli emergency departments.
To assess a screening program in northern Israel aimed at detecting couples at risk for having offspring with SCA.
To characterize cardiovascular pathologies of patients 70 years of age and over who visit the outpatient cardiac clinic.
To evaluate retinal straylight and patient complaint scores 18 months after implantation with the AcrySof ReSTOR diffractive multifocal intraocular lens (IOL) (Alcon Laboratories Inc).
To compare visual outcomes after LASIK using the VISX STAR S4 CustomVue, with and without Iris Registration technology.
To assess the efficacy, safety, and accuracy of TOSCA II (Topography Supported Custom Ablation) treatments for the correction of high corneal aberrations and refractive error following previous ocular surgery.
To investigate monocular peripheral presbyLASIK on the non-dominant eye with distance-directed monofocal refractive surgery on the dominant eye in treating presbyopia.
To determine the impact of wavefront-guided LASIK for myopia with or without astigmatism on high and low contrast best spectacle-corrected visual acuity (BSCVA), photopic and mesopic contrast sensitivity, and higher order aberrations.
To investigate agreement between a rotating Scheimpflug camera (Pentacam, Oculus Optikgeräte GmbH) and two corneal topographers (TMS-2 Topography System, Tomey; and Keratron Scout, Optikon 2000 SpA) in measuring the corneal power of normal eyes.
To compare the repeatability and reproducibility of corneal curvature measurements using the Pentacam eye scanner (Oculus Optikgeräte GmbH) and Keratron corneal topographer (Optikon 2000 SpA).
To evaluate the long-term outcome of myopic photorefractive keratectomy (PRK).
The sciatic nerve block represents one of the more difficult ultrasound-guided nerve blocks. Easy and reliable internal ultrasound landmarks would be helpful for localization of the sciatic nerve. Earlier, during ultrasound-guided posterior approaches to the infragluteal sciatic nerve, the authors recognized a hyperechoic structure at the medial border of the long head of biceps femoris muscle (BFL). The present study was performed to determine whether this is a potential internal landmark to identify the infragluteal sciatic nerve.
The LMA-Supreme() (S-LMA()) is a new supraglottic airway device that presents combined features of flexibility, curved structure and single use and a different cuff structure. The purpose of this study was to compare the oropharyngeal leak pressures (OLP) of LMA-Proseal() (P-LMA()) and S-LMA().
To evaluate the results of patient symptoms and radiologic outcomes of cystoretroperitoneal shunt (CRS) technique in the treatment of symptomatic simple renal cysts.
In a future warmer subarctic climate, the soil temperatures experienced by dispersed seeds are likely to increase during summer but may decrease during winter due to expected changes in snow depth, duration and quality. Because little is known about the dormancy-breaking and germination requirements of subarctic species, how warming may influence the timing and level of germination in these species was examined.
Floral elaiophores, although widespread amongst orchids, have not previously been described for Maxillariinae sensu lato. Here, two claims that epithelial, floral elaiophores occur in the genus Rudolfiella Hoehne (Bifrenaria clade) are investigated. Presumed elaiophores were compared with those of Oncidiinae Benth. and the floral, resin-secreting tissues of Rhetinantha M.A. Blanco and Heterotaxis Lindl., both genera formerly assigned to Maxillaria Ruiz &amp; Pav. (Maxillariinae sensu stricto).
Cost-benefit models predict that carnivory can increase the rate of photosynthesis (A(N)) by leaves of carnivorous plants as a result of increased nitrogen absorption from prey. However, the cost of carnivory includes decreased A(N) and increased respiration rates (R(D)) of trapping organs. The principal aim of the present study was to assess the costs and benefits of carnivory in the pitcher plant Nepenthes talangensis, leaves of which are composed of a lamina and a pitcher trap, in response to feeding with beetle larvae.
Wood density is a key variable for understanding life history strategies in tropical trees. Differences in wood density and its radial variation were related to the shade-tolerance of six canopy tree species in seasonally dry tropical forest in Thailand. In addition, using tree ring measurements, the influence of tree size, age and annual increment on radial density gradients was analysed.
In this review, the role of endo-beta-mannanases as mannan endotransglycosylase/hydrolases (MTHs) in remodelling the plant cell wall is considered by analogy to the role of xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolases (XTHs). The current understanding of the reaction mechanism of these enzymes, their three-dimensional protein structure, their substrates and their genes are reported.
Previous studies have reported effects of pollen source on the oil concentration of maize (Zea mays) kernels through modifications to both the embryo/kernel ratio and embryo oil concentration. The present study expands upon previous analyses by addressing pollen source effects on the growth of kernel structures (i.e. pericarp, endosperm and embryo), allocation of embryo chemical constituents (i.e. oil, protein, starch and soluble sugars), and the anatomy and histology of the embryos.
Aluminium (Al) toxicity is one of the most severe limitations to crop production in acid soils. Inhibition of root elongation is the primary symptom of Al toxicity. However, the underlying basis of the process is unclear. Considering the multiple physiological and biochemical functions of pectin in plants, possible involvement of homogalacturonan (HG), one of the pectic polysaccharide domains, was examined in connection with root growth inhibition induced by Al.
The resurgence of malaria, particularly in the developing world, is considerable and exacerbated by the development of single-gene multi-drug resistances to chemicals such as chloroquinone. Drug therapies, as recommended by the World Health Organization, now include the use of antimalarial compounds derived from Artemisia annua--in particular, the use of artemisinin-based ingredients. Despite our limited knowledge of its mode of action or biosynthesis there is a need to secure a supply and enhance yields of artemisinin. The present study aims to determine how plant biomass can be enhanced while maximizing artemisinin concentration by understanding the plant's nutritional requirements for nitrogen and potassium.
